one hundred girls .
and one of them is my true love .
my forever soul mate .
the betty to my barney .
my cosmetic destiny .
the problem is ...
i don' t know who she is .
i was leaving a highball bash in the girl' s dorm .
can you hit the basement button , please ?
my back was to her when that auspicious blackout hit .
i never got a chance to see her .
it must' ve been the cloak of darkness concealing my usual romantic block .
because that night i was smart , i was funny , i was invincible
did you ever notice in the movie " willy wonka & the chocolate factory " ... that the 0ompa loompas never wore hairnets ?
do you know what i really hate ?
those stickers they put on apples .
by the time you peel it off , you don' t want the apple anymore .
i sometimes wish i could just crawl up with a girl .
just hold each other .
like that picture of john lennon and yoko 0no .
that is so sweet .
and that' s when it happened .
our tongues tangled .
and our hands began displaying their in credible night vision .
her little breasts were just the right size to fill ... a champagne glass .
my impressive man hood in my pants expanded like popcorn .
we never knew each other' s names .
maybe it was the mystery of if all that made it so exciting .
in the morning ...
she was gone .
i had to find her .
i didn' t get much support from my roommate rod .
what you' re getting so bad out of shape for , man ?
i mean , it' s just a girl .
i should' ve expected you to say that .
what do you mean ?
i mean you' re the kind of guy ... who likes those silhouettes of naked women on the mud flaps of trucks .
you play video games watching a porn movie on the picture and picture .
you revel in the size of your dumps .
hey , matt !
you gotta check this out !
yeah , i do all those things .
this isn' t just another girl , rod .
i connected with her .
the last intimate encounter i had with a woman was when i was five .
id pulled down my pants , and vickie poured sand on my winky .
this is better than playing with you shovel , man .
ever since then , i' ve had this burning need for a woman .
when i was 10 years old , i liked getting a boner so much ...
i started taping my pecker so that it would stay up all the time .
i did the same thing , but i used duct tape , man .
shut up , i' m trying to make a point here .
i' ve never had this kind of success with a woman before .
when i was 16 , i tried talking to girls .
i had to write myself cheat notes ... on my hands so i had a list of topics i could talk to the girls about .
what' s that on your hand ?
nothing .
my romantic iq must' ve mashed me , because i showed the girl my list .
it' s all sorts of things i can talk to you about .
i thought i was the biggest loser of all time .
it wasn' t as bad as senior prom , when i spent us$ 150 on emily ... and didn' t even get a kiss of good night .
so you can imagine how impassioned i feel now i' ve actually met this girl .
you' re pathetic , man !
i mean , you lose your virginity ... and you don' t even get the girl' s name !
what the hell is that ?
it' s penile power , man .
i got it out of an ad in a magazine , you know ?
it' s gonna help me increase length and girth by hanging weights , man !
check it out , i' m up to 5 pounds .
it' s the stroker , not the poker .
man , i' m doing this for me .
like i always say ...
the angle of the dangle equals the cubic of the pubic " .
what' s that have to do with anything ?
i don' t know .
i just like to say it .
this penile power thing is gonna help me increase my libido ... help me maintain a full firm erection ... and it' s gonna help me control my ejaculation , baby .
so i' m gonna do it all night long !
when do you start junior high ?
no , man , look here .
i' m serious .
it works .
check this out .
this is kung chang , right ?
master of penile power .
look .
he' s lifting 500 pounds with his penis , man !
great , that' s useful ! is he gonna enter himself in a tractor pull ?
whatever , man .
so what are you gonna do about this girl ?
she left this .
hey , man , let me see that !
no ... ... i don' t recognize this one .
hey , give them back !
what are you gonna do ?
you' re gonna boil them and make soup ?
you don' t want a girlfriend .
jesus .
and then there' s the other thing .
you' d spend every friday night ... watching movies adapted from the latest jane austen book .
you don' t want that , man !
it' s pretty cold , rod .
listen , when it comes to men and women , men get a raw deal .
for centuries , we' ve been killing over 15 years before our wives ... and all because of all the stress in the work place , right ?
but not once have they apologized , man ... for all the millions of years of life we' ve lost working ... while women stayed home .
i couldn' t understand why rod hated women so much .
i suspected there was some past horror that made him this way .
man , all you gotta do is find the matching bra to those panties .
mystery solved !
that' s not a half bad idea .
you' re never gonna get in the virgin vault , man .
they don' t let boys in the girls ' side , alright ?
no , this will work .
you' re high , man .
0n my own testosterone , maybe .
come with me .
what are you doing , man ?
rod , i focused all my great cerebral powers ... to come up with this bold plan to penetrate the vault .
what are you ?
coyote super genius or something ?
something like that .
wait !
the coyote never caught the roadrunner , man !
got you !
hi , i' m matt , the new maintenance man .
had a call about some rats .
man in the hall !
getting my female suspects just about off their rooms ... was as easy as giving away free hair care products to girls .
it was as if i was a perverted prince charming . instead of cinderella' s glass slippers , i had her panties
i miss you .
what you mean , you just wanna be friends ?
get off me !
put that away and give me some .
it' s gonna be okay .
come on , baby .
jesus , can' t you see i' m busy ? !
put that stupid shit away , alright ?
crick , get off !
it' s time to give me some , alright ?
just relax , alright ?
you stapled my ass !
what are you doing ?
stop it !
he was gonna kill me .
i just hoped to get in ... a few verbal punches before he went mike tyson on me .
who are you ?
i' m matthew .
your name' s crick .
as in " crick without a paddle " .
i' ve seen you around .
you' re a natural born hipster .
natural born hipster ?
the next evolution of a jock .
you traded in your letterman jacket ... for a manicured goatee and an euro trash ponytail .
you' re the worst kind of cool , the kind who wears male make up .
a real fashion plate .
you' re living proof of those boy toy do of uses in those men' s magazines !
i was a goner .
but better me than her .
what was the worse ?
crick was hopped upon nicotine gum .
a chain chewer .
and he chewed his gum with his mouth open .
i hated that noise .
it was my kryptonite
what the hell are you doing here ?
i' m here so save her .
save her ?
how are you gonna do that ?
crick wasn' t wearing a shirt .
his nipples stood out like knobs ... on an old tv .
i don' t know what possessed me .
probably his incessant nicotine gum chewing .
but my hands reached out like they were drawing twin guns .
i grabbed his nipples and did a double twist .
but , somehow , through his blur of pain , crick fought back .
he grabbed my nipples and twisted .
it was tit for tat .
so we faced each other .
locked in a nipple combat .
each trying to endure the retching pains the longest .
each of us waiting for the other to blink .
and ...
i cracked .
i' il be back for your ass !
and i' il deal with you later !
here , have some midol .
it does the trick when my nipples get sore during my period .
thanks .
let me see .
they' re all bruised .
they are two black eyes .
we should put something cold on them .
you' re bruised too .
don' t worry , i' m used to it .
you' re patty , huh ?
you do that comic in the school newspaper .
that' s me .
an art school girl , huh ?
is that what you call me ?
no , i wasn' t calling you anything . in high school , you would have called me a slut .
now in college , you call me a good time .
lf her skirt were any shorter , she' d have other cheeks to powder ... and would have to put gloss on another pair of lips " .
i wasn' t thinking any of that .
i think you' re a nice girl .
i was lying .
i did think all those things .
she may not be perfect , but she oozed sex more than a sponge contraceptive .
she had a cuteness that set off my hair trigger response .
she got my pecker to strain like a dog on a leash .
what ?
what' s wrong ?
nothing , i' m sorry .
i' m trying to make it all better .
no .
i' m all better .
you don' t like me .
no .
i like you just fine .
you' re worried about what people say about me .
i' ve never heard anything .
sure you have . " lf she still has a cherry , it must be pushed so back ... ... she can use it as a taillight " .
i' ve never heard that .
yes , you have .
my reputation precedes me .
it' s okay .
you know , i' m all for experimentation .
what are these ?
are these stress balls ?
to relieve tension , like humphrey bogart did in that old movie .
there' s three ways to do things aboard my vessel .
the right way , the wrong way and my way .
if you do things my way , we' il get along just fine " .
those are my pinball balls .
what ?
pinball balls .
i put them inside of me , i rock my legs and i get off .
really ?
0kay , i' m sorry , i have to go .
hey , matt .
what' s the matter with you ?
penile power .
it seems to be causing a little pain , if you know what i mean .
so what' s plan b , mr. coyote ?
i' m gonna continue searching .
everyday , between classes and homework , i' il create a problem .
so they let me into fixit .
man in the hall !
once inside , i just figure out a way to get in the girls ' rooms .
hello .
this is phil gambone calling from kr0k radio .
you won the morning prize .
a new car .
you should' ve been there the day i turned the air conditioner off .
it was a feast for the eyes !
and there was cynthia dessert , the " crme " of womanhood .
she loomed as a titan in my masturbatory dreams .
she' s the perfect example of the power women holdover men .
we' re paralyzed by their beauty .
we' re rendered speechless by it .
if we' re lucky to say anything to them , it all sounds like gibberish .
you' re matt , the maintenance guy , right ?
i need some help in my room .
how can a guy have a real conversation with a girl like this ... when we' re made so helpless ?
in the animal kingdom , when 2members stare at each other ... it is a test of dominance .
the first one to look away is considered the weaker .
between a man and a woman , cards are stacked against the man .
because , let' s face it , every time a guy meets a girl ... he wants to check out her breasts .
a man must summon all his will not to lookdown at those golden orbs ... whose wondrous tips are upturned , aimed right at his eyes .
once a man loses this test of nerves ... the woman knows she has a great secret power over him ... and she can get him to do anything she wants .
like a sexual sorceress , cynthia had several men under her spell .
you can use my desk top pc anytime you want , all semester .
i have an extra pizza .
i thought you might want it .
when you' re done , i just need some help moving some furniture .
thanks for getting this masterpiece theater !
strange , it was getting only espn .
yeah , it' s weird .
anybody for a game of foosball ?
no , thanks .
come on , you guys !
what about you , maintenance boy ?
you wanna play ?
just one game !
i' m talking one game here .
it' s a bad sign when you meet a girl who wears no make up .
unfortunately , i didn' t heed the warnings .
arlene suckered me into a game of strip foosball .
the loser of each goal will have to remove one article of clothing .
prepare to get naked .
beat matt !
i don' t know why you girls get such fiendish delight in defeating men .
we' ve been emasculated all life .
you' re just trying to distract me .
i' m serious .
my mom taught me who was boss when i was 5 years old .
she started spanking me with a wooden spoon .
we' ve been forced into submissive roles all our lives .
you might as well be wearing those little french maid outfits .
your dumb stories will not throw me off my game .
i' m trying to make a point here .
let me tell you .
i' ve never felt more manly then the day my mother broke her spoon ... on my hard buttocks .
the tyranny of the spoon was over , and my ass was liberated .
until today .
i' m kicking your hole .
my greatest fear was being realized .
what if one of these girls was my elevator aphrodite ?
what if she saw me getting beaten by a girl ?
it' s goal time .
score !
now i wanna see my trophy .
thank god i turned the thermostat up that day ... otherwise my man hood would' ve recoiled like a turtlehead ... instead of hanging out like an anaconda waiting for a match .
man , you lost to a girl ?
yeah , and my pride shrank like my scrotum on a snow day .
speaking of scrotum , i think i can ... add a little weight .
i' m up to 10 pounds , baby .
i wonder why god equipped women with all the weapons for seduction ?
what do you mean ?
take the breasts , for example .
you' ve the bosom ... the aureole ... the nipple .
three concentric circles . in other words , it' s the bull' s eye .
its no wonder the breast is the target for all men .
that' s profound .
and men are grotesque .
i' m not just talking about the little habits we have ...
like cleaning our ears with our car keys .
we' re grotesque to the core .
look at the penis .
it looks like god had some left over skin when he was making elbow ... ... and he slapped in our groin .
man , it freaks me out .
the penis is the first to shrivel when it' s cold ... and it' s the first to shrink in fear .
the penis is a cowardly flap of left over elbow flesh .
you wouldn' t think that way if you had a little of my penile power .
i screwed up the air conditioning in the virgin vault again today .
this time is too hot , so that girls will strip down to next to nothing .
i should be getting a call anytime now to fix it .
do you have any suspects yet ?
no , there' s too many choices .
their dorm is a whitman sampler of women !
a virtual pot pourri of pussy .
it' s more than sex .
those women have distinct personalities .
look over there .
you see that girl ?
i call her ever tan barbara .
who' s the girl with the magic markers up there ?
it' s ren .
she writes cheat notes on her breasts .
see next door ?
that' s sasha .
she' s totally into purple .
have you seen that girl at the front desk , rhonda ?
she can be really cute , but she has this habit of picking her eyebrows .
yeah , nice from afar , but far from nice !
and you' re right .
some girls watch jane austen movies every friday .
the literary world has a term for those fanatics .
janeites " .
my god , let' s watch it tonight .
i' il make the popcorn !
there' s this girl penny .
ever seen her ?
she' s always on the phone crying with her long distance boyfriend .
he wants to break up with her .
she is on the same floor as maureen ... ... who has a new hair style everyday !
i' ve seen her around .
who' s that girl with the green slime , man ?
you' ve found dana .
she' s on a all algae diet .
and who' s the hummer on three ?
that' s michelle .
she sounds like some kind of buddhist monk , don' t you think ?
so , have you got any more suspicious suspects yet ?
i have that one girl who never comes out of her room .
so i stake out her room .
i just hear a little bit of rustling .
i bet you that she' s your mystery woman .
hurry up , the movie is at 7 : 30 .
i can' t lock the door .
forget about it .
we' re gonna miss the trailer for " north anger abbey " .
saturday nights were the best for sneaking into girls ' rooms .
they went out on dates or home for the weekend .
the dorm was empty .
except for dora .
she never had anywhere to go on saturday night .
i did have to admit i' ve seen cuter girls in " national geographic " .
she' s the kind of girl about whom rod would say ...
i wouldn' t even screw her with your dick , man .
but i felt for her .
when you' re not good looking , you become a failure by default .
people treat you like you have the ebola virus .
they don' t wanna get near , because what you have might be contagious .
it' s cruel .
this women studies class is gonna be a breeze .
we get to check out all the pretty girls .
i think we made a really big mistake .
today we are gonna study patriarchal infrastructures ... that exercise gender based discrimination .
who can give me examples ?
the pope won' t allow women priests .
why can a man be promiscuous , but a woman is called a slut ?
why is it called " his story " , instead of " her story " ?
why women shoes are always so uncomfortable ?
an older man can go out with a young woman , but an older woman ... ... can' t go out with a young man .
very good .
the boys in the back , would you care to contribute ?
you enrolled in my class to meet girls , didn' t you ?
there' s a couple of you every semester .
none of you ever last .
great
i need to maintain at least 3 . 75 gpa to keep my scholar ship .
now elsa , of the ss , is gonna make me lose it .
i' il enjoy teaching you boys a lesson .
one saturday , i got careless .
disasters truck moments after i had to drain my main vein .
women have a sixth sense .
they know when something is a miss .
they see things that go undetected to a man' s eye .
from the slightest detail , she knew there had been a male presence .
and i was such a fool .
i had left behind the most damning piece of evidence .
but this girl was a pro .
she could have been trained by my mother
my eyes !
matthew ?
it' s me , wendy , from eleventh grade trig !
we all sat in the back because mr. perialas had such a bad breath .
i' m looking for this girl . lf you don' t believe me , check my right pocket .
i have her panties in there .
i believe you .
so you' re gonna check every girl ?
lf i can ever see again !
this is so romantic !
hey , i' il help you !
i' m a sucker for matchmaking !
i wanna let you know , we' re gonna be doing the lights today , okay ?
i just want to let you know that you' re hair looks really cute .
and that' s all .
0kay , thank you .
bye bye .
with the help of my faithful companion wendy , i found a match .
i waited impatiently for my mystery maiden to return .
it was hours .
finally my romantic quest was rewarded .
she was a goddess .
more than i could ever possibly have hoped for .
i was corrupt with happiness . immediately declared all the feelings i had had for her .
i think even the word " love " was used .
i love you .
she kept me frozen in suspense , as awaited for her response .
needless to say , my spirits crashed like a karmic kinden berg .
stop soaking , man .
don' t you get it ?
women are nothing but trouble !
great .
here we go again .
hear me out , man .
women complain that all men want ... their girls to look like models , and it makes them angry ... that they have to live up to this expectation .
but what about us ?
we live with the disappointment that our women won' t look like it .
they ever take that in consideration ?
no .
we' ve been conditioned to expect something that we' il never get !
and what' s worse !
men age better than women .
while we get better over time , we get with women with saggy tits ... who start wearing those bathing suits that cover the belly buttons !
then , they get those short asexual haircuts , and their thunder thighs !
making love to a woman turns a man into a cellulite surfer !
who gets the better in the deal ?
i wonder what prom night succubus or second date siren ... had in stilled him such zealous misogyny .
can you believe ?
i' ve gained a half an inch since i started using this !
where do you start when you measure your dick , man ?
alright , admit it .
i' ve measured my dick .
weal have .
but the evolved man that i was , i didn' t wanna give rodman answer .
in your case , from the neck up .
screw you , man !
so , hey , what are you reading ?
i was just checking to make sure the paper printed my ad .
i' ve no clue anymore how to find my black out knock out ... so every week i take up a personal ad in the school newspaper ... telling my mystery girl that i' il be waiting every thursday night ... in the basement of the virgin vault .
so , in complete darkness , we can renew our relationship ... until both of us decide to reveal our identities .
you sit in the dark every thursday night ?
you' re a sick man .
you' re a freak !
that' s it .
i' m outta here .
alright , man .
take it easy .
and if she' s easy , take her twice .
my whole operation was a romantic bay of pigs .
id already spent several thursday nights in the dark ... and she' d yet to show up .
it' s me .
wendy .
she didn' t come , did she ?
no .
how did you know i was down here ?
i read your personal ad .
it' s after midnight .
she' s probably not gonna show .
but i thought you might want some dinner .
come for a food .
wendy was the ber girl next door .
a testament to why women in our society are cheer leaders .
everything she did was perfect .
she was arousing in that virginal maryann , not ginger sort of way .
this kind of girl is scary .
she' s the kind of girl you take home to mom .
and even scarier , she' s the kind you marry and she becomes your mom .
she dresses you , feeds you ...
leaves notes on toilettes telling you what chores need to be done .
she' s scary because you could see yourself falling for her .
but , at the same time , you feel that if you fall for her ... you' re settling for just the average .
what ?
you' re just so perfect .
i hate when people say that .
i don' t wanna be perfect .
so my dad had polio when he was a kid ... and he had this really bad leg .
and whenever he walked ... he made this creepy ... thumping noise .
and just super creepy .
i remember him coming home from work and ... walking down the long hallway to kiss me good night .
i was scared because all i could hear was the thumping , you know ?
so i hid under my covers . is it not sad to be so afraid of your father ?
i was really scared of the wizard of 0z .
that margaret hamilton ... who does the wicked witch was so hair raising , you know ?
and that music ... it scared me so much .
i' d get so scared i couldn' t sleep , `cause it' d get stuck in my head .
sometimes , do you know what i did to calm myself ?
i remembered that dorothy killed the witch by putting water on her .
so i' d lie in bed and i' d work up this big water spit .
and i knew that if the witch came to get me i' d just spit on her ... and she' d melt .
i just told you a sad story about my family , and that' s all you can say ?
i' m sorry .
i' m tragically glib .
men have this anti intimacy force field a round them ... that is powered by sarcasm , humor and a version .
why is that ?
the force is strong with this one .
maybe it' s because a man can fall in love with a different girl everyday .
maybe it' s just nature' s way of protecting a man from himself .
how do you feel about the name " francesca " ?
do you know that muslim men shave their pubic hairs ?
no wonder so many of them become terrorists !
i can' t breathe !
i can' t see !
fascinating !
can you blame guys for being so horny ?
look at the dress .
it' s one big symbol for easy access .
have you ever calculated how many hours ' women have wasted ... deciding on what kind of shoes to wear ?
foxy lady !
trust me .
they will get drunk , they do it every thursday night .
and they talk about everything once they' re plastered .
so , as francesca , try to make one of them ... reveal that she had sex on an elevator in a black out .
did i ever tell you about when i got a bloody nose while giving head ?
0nce i got my gum stuck in the guy' s pubis while giving a blow job .
i' ve got you all beaten .
when i was about to swallow it , i laughed and it came out my nose .
girls are way grosser than guys !
a friend had sex in an elevator .
have any of you ever tried that ?
i have it .
i had a boyfriend who liked to rub it between my toes .
then he blamed when he got athlete' s foot on his dong !
francesca' s night was a major bust .
that stunk !
well , maybe you just need to try something different , you know ? instead of hoping for hard evidence on your romantic suspect ... maybe you should just get to know these girls .
you might get a vibe as to which one she is .
you' re right .
i do need to do something i' ve been avoiding .
i need to lower my anti intimacy shield .
if you had a choice , would you rather be warm or smart ?
so , why is it purple ?
isn' t " american cheese " appropriately named ?
it' s fake and processed , just like america .
tell me something ... who' s the idiot who invented the buttoned down fly ?
there are dogs who sniff melanoma in humans before it' s diagnosed .
have you ever noticed , they only give hurricanes wasp names ...
like hurricane andrew ?
you never hear giuseppe or mohammed .
why older people pull their pants up over their belly buttons ?
why in golf is it good to shoot under par ... but a sub par performance in anything else is bad ?
do you know what the best phrase is ?
i' m ready for anything " .
i can' t speak to cynthia as matt .
i start speaking gibberish .
but i have a silver tongue with her when i am francesca !
these things are supposed to get rid of cellulite .
come on .
can i ask you a question ?
yeah .
how often do you bikini wax ?
everyday .
i thought i was a fanatic !
god , that' s sam !
he cannot see me with these pants and no make up !
wait , wait a second !
i got your term paper !
i even got one of those plastic covers !
you don' t have to ...
hold on a second !
i' il come to you !
come on !
i' m coming , cynthia !
so what' s the big deal ?
i' m not stupid .
i get things easy .
the guys will do anything for me because of the way i look .
i know that .
and if sam saw me in these ...
i might lose my edge with him .
like at " green legend " , they lost the power ring .
who ?
never mind .
you' re lucky .
no , i' m not .
it' d be great if guys always wanted to do things for me .
no , it' s a curse .
you see ... nothing is a challenge for me .
everything is made easy .
and if i ever actually do something on my own ... everyone assumes that i got there because of my looks .
it sucks .
so ready to go again ?
it' s just easier to talk to cynthia as a girl than as a guy .
there' s nothing at stake .
how do you mean ?
when you' re a guy talking to a girl like her , you' re going for all the marbles .
she' s a super bowl of women .
and you know , if you screw up and she rejects you ... then every other girl after cynthia is gonna seem like a compromise .
and you just know you aren' t good enough to get a girl like her .
that' s why i don' t talk to girls in her league .
i just don' t wanna know that i' ve crashed and burned .
i won' t ever get the opportunity to put her ring around my 11th finger .
what are you reading ?
nothing .
it' s gotta be something .
why are you talking to me ?
i don' t know .
it' s quiet around here .
i' m matthew .
what' s your name ?
ghost face .
what ?
they called me so in high school .
i' m sorry .
it' s okay .
i kind of like it .
it' s better than being called ...
the poster child for abortion " or " the girl with the vertical smile " .
i was trying to be friendly .
maybe she could tell still thought she was contagious .
men wanna be quarantined from unattractive girls .
we place so much emphasis on physical beauty ... we' re afraid to be infected by one of these girls ' inner beauty .
let' s not have a pity party .
please , you' re blocking my light .
thanks for getting us the lifetime channel , matthew .
no problem .
just don' t tell anybody i pirated .
it' s a felony .
anybody up for a game ?
how about you , matt ?
0r are you chicken ?
our grudge match escalated into a cold war of words .
girls are just users .
look at the praying mantis , for instance .
after they' re finished doing the nasty , the female eats the head ... ... of her male mate .
i should expect a remark like that ... from someone who thinks a car is an extension of his penis .
and a person is an extension of a woman' s vagina ?
score !
we aren' t filthy pigs like men .
we' re always picking after you .
why are you so worked up ?
pms and quitting smoking at the same time ?
a woman can' t get mad , unless it' s her period !
you' re so close minded !
yeah , but about all the right things .
goal !
two zip .
time to strip .
america is so one sided .
wedding gifts are a demonstration of that .
what all the newly weds get ?
kitchen stuff .
girlie crap .
small trade off for having to cook for some lazy ass man !
lazy ?
when you' re walking with a girl ... why does the guy have to slow down , instead of her speeding up ?
who said going slower is better ?
it' s not .
going faster is better .
and more exercise .
how about that ?
goal .
at least , we don' t start wars .
maybe if we got laid a little bit more often , we wouldn' t be so .
maybe you' d get laid more often , if you knew what you' re doing in bed .
you' ve got it easy .
you touch a guy anywhere and it feels good .
with a woman , it' s like finding a needle in a haystack .
while we' re on the subject , you find it gross to go down on a guy ... and , when you do it , it' s like a really big deal !
but guys are willing to go diving for oysters anytime , anywhere .
we' re more willing to give pleasure , we' re less selfish .
at this remark , i thought arlene would spontaneously combust .
you' re so sexist !
you know what ?
i am .
so are you .
i am not !
you sound like louis farrakhan saying only white men are racist .
but we all have prejudices .
black , white , male , female .
goal .
you cheated !
how can you do that ?
i wasn' t even looking !
my god , you cheated !
this was bad .
this wasn' t my glorious wrestling fancy .
you cheated , admit it !
we didn' t lay down any rules !
maybe that was the problem .
there were no rules between men and women .
and this lack of rules made girls ... and specially us guys like these foosball players .
we had giant steels takes for a heart and we' re spinning out of control .
i was just as bad as rod .
but i finally had something to say ... when i was called on in my woman studies class .
there' s no clear defined rules between men and women .
each side thinks they' re playing fair and they' re being cheated .
maybe this is why men and women bring out the poison in one another .
rubbish !
we all know there are rules !
rules that are enforced and imposed by the contemporary patriarchy ... of western civilization !
saturday after midterms seemed like an ordinary saturday night .
i checked on the girl who never came out of her room .
then i noticed that dora wasn' t in her usual spot .
dora !
have you girls seen dora ?
have you guys seen dora ?
she' s up there .
why aren' t you doing anything ?
she does this every semester .
id break the vcrs o those girls couldn' t watch jane austen movies .
let' s play west .
0ne more flight .
don' t do it !
the first time i did this , nobody noticed .
now nobody cares .
i care .
why are you doing this ?
i was born with the greatest curse .
what' s that ?
i' m ugly and i' m also very smart .
you' re not ugly .
i know what' s in store for me .
no one will ever have passion for me .
people all around me will be falling in love and making love ... and getting married and having kids .
the closest thing i' il ever have to that ... is someone inviting me to their christmas dinner ... because they feel guilty , i might be spending the holiday alone .
0r , if i' m lucky , my male counterpart ... an obese man or a guy with a harelip , will invite me to coffee ... and we' il pretend to love each other and tighten up ... because we' re so desperately afraid of growing old alone .
i had a bad feeling this girl might jump this time .
i felt terrible that i had treated her like she had the ebola virus .
there was something inside this girl i wanted to expose myself to .
she was so self aware , so sensitive .
maybe she noticed the change in me .
come on , let' s go back inside .
0nly if you admit that i' m right .
you' re probably right .
you didn' t have to worry .
i just like to come up here sometimes and see what it might be like .
i found out what dora was reading all those saturday nights .
d. h. lawrence , colette and henry miller .
sylvester , yes , he knows how to build a fire .
but i know how to inflame your cunt .
i shoot hot bolts into you , tania .
i make your ovaries incandescent " .
can you imagine someone being that passionate for you ?
your turn .
your sylvester is a little jealous now .
he feels something , doesn' t he ?
the reminiscence of my big prick .
i set the shores a little wider .
i ironed out the wrinkles .
after me , you can take on stallions , bulls , rams ... saint bernards " .
being francesca has its disadvantages .
what happened ?
last night , my roommate , rod , came to find me .
he didn' t recognize me as francesca .
god !
jesus christ !
so he starts looking at my dress .
i know exactly what he' s doing .
because i do it when i can too .
whenever men look at a girl , they imagine her naked .
so that' s what he' s doing to me right there .
i felt ... ... violated .
i know the feeling .
it' s no wonder that women have to be the gatekeepers of sex .
with the way men are , women could initiate the sexual battle ... whenever they wanted .
guys are just simply always willing to volunteer for sex .
their attitude towards it , it' s like putting jam into a jelly donut .
i tested the concept with rod .
so what do you wanna do about it ?
what are you talking about ?
you just said " i love you " .
no , you got me wrong .
i said " olive soup " .
what ?
0live soup .
so he was all ready to do it with you ?
it proves men are irresponsible when it comes to genital gymnastics .
i have this theory that has to do with shopping .
shopping ?
women have more practice at it .
they can go into a store , circle something and they won' t buy it !
they' re learning self restraint .
men only go shopping when we know exactly what we' re gonna get .
men and women treat sex the exact same way .
your theory has some validity .
it' s not only sex .
women are more responsible about everything !
the fact of the matter is , women really rule the world .
thank you .
the irony is that women are not pointed to recognizable positions .
they have to carry out their work at the underground .
men are afraid of putting women to the work place , because they know ... women will rise to their proper levels on top .
i think you' re right .
i' ve got a cookie for you here .
thank you .
care to come in and share a bowl of captain crunch ?
patty had a way of even making " captain crunch " sound sexy .
no , i have work to do .
look , don' t be afraid .
i know you like some other girl than me .
here , have some .
it' s the original .
there' s some syrup to put on it .
that' s how i like it .
how do you know i like some other girl ?
by the way that you look at me .
and how is that ?
there' s a certain way a man stares at the woman he loves .
the man looks like a boy on his birthday .
and he treats the woman as if she were a gift ... that he' s waited so long to open ... and now he can' t wait to see what the treasure is inside .
you don' t give me that look .
you know how captain hook could always hear the crocodile ... from the tic tac of his clock in the crock' s belly ?
that' s the way it was for me with crick and his nicotine gum .
i knew i' d find you two together .
he was all high on nicotine gum .
i had to get patty out of there .
the best way to do that was to focus his testosterone on me .
you know something , crick , i was wondering .
the bad guys of the world really know they' re being bad ... or they think they' re good guys when they act like sphincters ?
i don' t know .
you tell me , smart guy .
so you think you' re a good guy ?
i know i am .
you' re the one who' s trying to steal my chick .
i' m the cool one .
cool ?
that' s another thing that bothers me .
i was just reading that one in six people think they' re cool .
what is that like ?
a billion people are cool ?
that just can' t be right !
if everybody is cool , then really nobody is cool .
you don' t know what you' re talking about .
look at you .
the modern day media , the magazines , the tv ... they show us what coolness is , so that you pony tale pretenders ... can go out there and buy coolness , thus fooling the weak minded .
i had enough of you , buddy !
get off me !
we' d never win this fight with crick .
lonely had one desperate chance .
bastard !
get the hell off me !
bastard !
what the fuck !
i think we ditched him .
patty !
what was that ?
my pinball balls .
you had them in while eating ?
yeah , it' s incredible .
there you are !
i was a dead man .
but then fate intervened .
after crick hobbled away in pain , we were still drunk with laughter .
i guess that' s what made me do it .
patty came on to me again , and succumbed .
i tried to rationalize .
i thought maybe i could learn from her ... maybe this is why god made women like this ... so that sexually impaired like me would' ve someone to practice on .
at this moment , she wasn' t a slut .
she was a luscious voice of experience .
sweet leaping jesus !
i wish i had made love less " .
we didn' t make love the way they do it in the movies ... where the guy slides in between her legs like a hot knife through butter .
no , this was like real life .
no , not that hole .
i can' t get in .
you' re sure there' s not another ball in there ?
no , here .
let me help you .
no , we didn' t make cinema love .
we made the kind of love where you just laugh together ... when bodies make that noise when air gets trapped in between you .
patty taught me things .
you don' t have to kiss me the whole time .
seems like you' re kissing me just to avoid looking at me .
look into my eyes .
concentrate on me .
concentrate on us .
id only done it twice , but now i knew why men love sex so much .
because while you' re doing it , you feel like you' re as good ... if not better than every other man .
the feeling of that grease makes you sure you' re in the correct path .
madonna mia !
that everything is right in the world .
our transcendent fusion was not the romantic type , it was just fun .
my experience with her was not serious and nothing cosmic .
i used her .
i feel terrible .
don' t worry about it .
did i tell you i' m up to 15 pounds over here ?
i treated her like she was my sexual training wheels ... something i' d use to learn and i' d discard when i no longer need them .
and what if the elevator girl finds out ?
she' s gonna think i' m a dick .
man , it' s your manifest destiny to nail her . in every species , it' s the male function to perpetuate its line .
why should it be any different for you ?
you should embrace your destiny , not deny it .
how are you gonna get by with this attitude towards women , rod ?
i' m gonna get rich .
i' il give me one of those low life whores ... give her a nice car , a bunch of credit cards , lots of cash . in return , she' il take care of the kids and give me sex on demand .
what' s your problem ?
what happened to make you hate women so much ?
there' s no problem .
something had happened .
i knew it .
there was definitely a horror in rod' s past .
and it was the encounter with the monster that rod called " woman " .
what' s your horror story ?
there' s no story , man .
you' re the one that' s got a problem with women , not me .
maybe if you tried this thing , you wouldn' t be so nervous all the time .
not only have my length and girth increased , but so has my virility , baby .
just the other day , i boned this girl all night long .
yeah ?
what girl ?
francesca .
yeah , right !
yeah , man .
she' s doable .
in your dreams !
she is , man .
i' m telling you !
we had sex all night long .
she may be ugly , but i ain' t complaining .
i' m shepherd happy .
god , i hate guys
dick !
more than half of the semester had passed , my debutante of the dark ... my doll of destiny , hadn' t presented herself .
i had almost lost all hope when something happened .
matthew ?
you' re here !
my god , you know my name !
that' s wonderful !
stop trying to find me .
what ?
i don' t want you to find me .
can we talk about this for a second ?
there' s nothing to talk about .
i don' t like you .
wait , can you ...
wait , hey , wait !
i chased her like i was popeye doyle chasing that train .
got you !
i lost her .
do you wanna talk about it ?
no , i' m okay .
my anti intimacy force field was on the autopilot .
come on , might make you feel better .
i was feeling so bad , i decided to put the anti intimacy on manual .
i lowered it .
tell me about it .
i figured she had a boyfriend ... or she was drunk that night and she didn' t remember .
0r i deluded myself into thinking she thought i was some pre med ... or pre law adonis , and that wouldn' t care when i found her .
i never thought it was because she didn' t like me .
maybe there' s another reason .
i don' t think so .
i should' ve figured it had something to do with me .
testosterone must really fill the ego , because ...
i' ve stored plenty of both .
i' m just a big steaming pile of loser .
what do you think i am ?
it' s midnight and i' m cleaning my room .
is your mom coming tomorrow ?
yeah , you guessed it .
how do you get along with your folks ? in 9th grade , i wanted to read these james bond novels .
my mom wouldn' t allow it , unless my father cut out the sex scenes .
she said , " that doesn' t happen in real life " .
and certainly not to me .
i had to get glasses .
i begged my mom to let me get contact lenses .
lf i get glasses , mom , i couldn' t be handsome like james bond " .
she just never let me feel like i could be sexy .
i still feel that way .
god !
parents always try to turn us into something we don' t wanna be !
i wish i could be more than my parents ' perfect little girl .
that looks like fun .
wait .
0nly i' m allowed to .
now we' re even .
really ?
hi , mom .
this is matt .
finals were nearing , and so was the end of the school year .
i was running out of time .
look what it did to my " pride and prejudice " tape .
this is a catastrophe !
i had one last chance , one last strategy .
if i improved myself , doing more than keeping my nails clean ... maybe my cosmetic destiny might change her opinion of me .
she was out there somewhere watching me .
i decided , the first step in my taking a scouring to my soul ... ... was peace in the gender war .
another point , pussies ?
forget it .
i' m outta here .
come on , just one more game !
i' il play .
i was a maze by how well arlene and i complemented each other .
arlene had a soft touch , knowing just where to set me up .
she let my power game do its magic .
she was an excellent cheer leader .
she never got pissed when i blew a point .
it' s okay , you' re doing good .
you get it next time .
my balls and her energy drove us to new performance heights .
come on , arlene , smoke them !
our masculine and feminine sides brought up the best in each other .
we went together , like yinandyang .
potato chips and soda .
men and women .
because crick and his buddy had the same styles , they often collided .
they were missing something .
they had the power , but no strategy .
there was too much ego .
they spent more time fighting each other .
you keep your arm on your side !
that' s game , guys .
end match .
now drop them .
you cheated !
let' s see those trophies , boys .
let' s see them .
girls , it' s just because it' s cold in here .
it' s freezing , i swear .
i know sometimes you think guys like me can be pigs .
i get sensitive sometimes .
comes from growing up with 6 brothers .
i know , but i wanna tell you something .
it' s hard for me sometimes to figure out how to be a man .
what do you mean ?
i can blame my father a little bit .
my male role model .
my dad loves ice cream so much , he' d do anything to get it .
more than once , ld watch him running out in the middle of the street ... in his underwear , after the ice cream truck .
how is that supposed to teach me to be a man , right ?
back in the day , boys would go out with their fathers to work ... or they' d take the weekend and go hunting .
at their fathers ' sides , boys learn to be men . in the computer age , boys are at home and fathers , at the offices .
there' s no more apprenticeships left .
it leaves me in the street , looking at my father ... is his under weareating ice cream sandwich .
some role model .
right !
if i can' t grasp what a man is , how am i gonna understand women ?
i wouldn' t say that .
you understand women better than most men .
thank you .
i love women .
i love those emerald pools masquerading as eyes .
lips .
i love smiles ... and the yawns .
the eating .
with skin so soft , women are head to toe cashmere .
a woman skin inspires a man' s fingers to have magellan' s love of exploration .
it' s women' s bellies that drive me wild .
it' s more than the only part of the body you easily see naked .
the belly hints at the pleasures beyond .
you' re so near and yet so far .
everything about a woman draws you to her sexuality .
the small triangle between her legs is like the head o fan arrow ... which points , " go here !
or if you follow the graceful line of the pectoral is major ... it inevitably draws your eyes to the golden orbs ... climaxed by the nipple .
god is in the details .
and the nipple is his greatest detail .
dora loved the video i made of her .
but i couldn' t take the credit .
i said 95 % of directing is casting .
see ?
you' re beautiful .
so , cynthia , why aren' t you out on a saturday night ?
because my face got flattened like road kill after the couch fell on me .
sorry .
it was weird that i felt comfortable talking to her now ... that her looks didn' t distract me .
she was the same girl , really .
so what are you reading ?
" world religion and us " .
this guy was supposed to give me his notes , but he never called me .
i was reading about these religious scholars who found out that ... the phrase " walking in the water " meant " walking by the water " . isn' t that interesting ?
perhaps jesus didn' t perform any miracle .
we thought he did , because we made a mistake in the translations .
i hear you .
but you know what' s really messed up ?
god loves us , right ?
then why does he let bad things happen to good people ?
i don' t know .
i guess god has a plan for everybody , right ?
his plan for me sucks !
you' ve got strong legs .
id been avoiding patty for a while .
i didn' t know how to handle it .
but i was thinking about her .
so francesca went to hangout with her .
so what do you think about that maintenance guy matt ?
he' s not my type really .
why is that ?
i don' t know .
he just sort of seems distracted to me .
it was then that i heard the cracking of crick' s nicotine gum .
patty , i just heard of what you' ve been doing with mr. fix it .
can we talk about this later ?
no , we' il talk about it right now !
please , just let go off me !
let her go !
you want to some of me too ?
it looks like it' s just the two of us .
relax , and we' il get along just fine .
are you a slut too ?
everything will be fine .
just relax .
crick was chewing his nicotine gum in year .
like kryptonite , it drained any superpowers i had left in my body .
all that went through my mind was what crick had in store for me .
do you like it ?
i' m gonna give it to you good .
now give us a
