dear fork lift truck drivers ... gentlemen , during your training you have proven you can control a fork lift truck both in theory and practice .
and therefore im pleased to tell you that all of you ... passed the examination .
and now id like to hand out your fork lift truck driver licenses for in plant traffic .
so , here we have ...
mr. wercek .
thats klaus .
klaus has just successfully passed his examination to operate lift trucks , also known as fork lift trucks .
he' s now one of 37, 000 trained specialists in germany who can call themselves fork lift truck drivers .
forkllft drlver klaus
the flrst day on the job
good morning , klaus .
now for the real work .
your first day as a fork lift truck driver is about to begin .
and what does a good fork lift truck driver do at the very beginning ?
right , the look around check .
because a safe machine is the basic condition to safe working .
are the brakes alright ?
does the lift mechanism work flawlessly ?
what about the steering ?
is it precise ?
everything alright ?
well , then youre all set .
go !
for everyones ' safety , separated drive and walkways are built at the hall entrances and exits .
but be careful !
unfortunately there still are co workers who dont use the prescribed walkways , thus endangering themselves and others .
well , that was close .
therefore , even if drive and walkways are separated , watch out for pedestrians .
there' s a co worker waiting already .
good morning , klaus .
congratulations on your fork lift truck driver license .
many thanks .
i need to get to that 16th order up there .
can you lift me ?
but klaus , you do know that lifting people on the fork is not allowed .
nope , cant do that , its too dangerous .
hey , look , we take a pallet and then its totally safe .
ah , the co worker found a solution .
but its still against the regulations .
the opposite is the case .
it' s no solution at all .
and now it happens .
the pallet is tilting , loss of balance , falling down .
thus , never lift people on the fork .
during special employments , always use a specially secured platform .
well , klaus , lets professionally lift the delivery and place it on the shelf .
place the fork lift truck in front of the pallet , insert the fork and lift the load .
say , did you see my cutter somewhere ?
nope .
where did i put it ?
then slowly drive forward and set down the load .
lunch !
enjoy your meal .
well , klaus , here we go again .
what , it doesn' t work ?
let me have a look , im good with mechanical things .
one moment , klaus .
do you remember ?
maintenance and repair may only be done by technical specialists .
so dont tamper with the machine and dont let others tamper with it either .
oh , come on !
because of such a little thing ?
one doesn' t even need to be handy in order to fix this .
thus , never try to repair technical problems on your own .
instead , tell your boss about them so he can call an expert .
well , the fork lift truck is working again .
and on to the next order .
right klaus , when it comes to slippery loads its important to keep them balanced on the fork .
but klaus , dont you think such load needs to be secured to prevent it from slipping off or falling off the fork ?
therefore , everything that can easily slip off the fork has to be secured .
this is best done with special clamping belts .
shit .
metal processing companies , have special areas with an increased noise level .
in such areas , protection for the ears must be used .
