senators , consider the opportunities for the empire .
at last , the destinies of the planets
romulus and remus will be united .
shinzon of remus is offering us a chance to make ourselves stronger than ever before .
it would be madness to reject it .
i beg you not to let prejudice or politics interfere with this alliance .
by joining shinzon' s forces with ours , not even the federation will be able to stand in our way .
that' s enough !
the decision has been made .
the military does not dictate policy on romulus .
the senate has considered
shinzon' s proposal and rejected it .
he and his followers will be met with all deliberate force and sent back to that black rock they came from .
do i make myself clear ?
yes , sir .
if you will excuse me , praetor ,
i have an appointment with the tholian ambassador .
of course .
senators , are there any others who wish to speak ?
then i call for a vote on the motion to open trade negotiations with celes ll .
as you know , the reman mines have not been filling their quotas for months now .
i hope you will all bear in mind the trade committee' s findings .
as much as we don' t want ...
would someone alert security ?
bring back senator tal' aura .
duty .
a starship captain' s life is filled with solemn duty .
i have commanded men in battle .
i have negotiated peace treaties between implacable enemies .
i have represented the federation in first contact with 27 alien species .
but none of this compares with my solemn duty today ... as best man .
now , i know on an occasion such as this , it is expected that i be gracious and fulsome in my praise on the wonders of this blessed union .
but have the two of you considered what you are doing to me ? !
of course , you' re happy , but what about my needs ?
this is all a damned inconvenience .
i mean , while you are happily settling in on the titan ,
i will be training my new first officer .
you all know him .
he' s a tyrannical martinet who will never , ever allow me to go on away missions .
that is the regulation , sir .
starfleet code section 12 , paragraph four ...
mr. data ?
sir ?
shut up .
yes , sir .
15 years i' ve been waiting to say that .
no , seriously .
will , deanna , there' s still time to reconsider .
yes ?
no .
no .
no ?
oh , very well , then .
will riker , you have been my trusted right arm for 15 years .
you have kept my course true and steady .
deanna troi , you' ve been my guide and my conscience .
you have helped me recognize the better parts of myself .
you are my family .
and in best maritime tradition ,
i wish you both clear horizons .
my good friends ... make it so .
the bride and groom !
to the bride and groom .
you ever think about getting married again ?
no .
23 was my limit .
worf ?
are you all right ?
romulan ale should be illegal .
it is .
that was a lovely toast .
it was from the heart .
and you needn' t worry .
i' m going to brief your new counselor on everything she needs to know .
oh , like hell you are .
you already know too much about me .
but i take it that there will be no speeches during the ceremony on betazed .
no , no speeches and no clothes .
ladies and gentlemen , and invited tran gendered species ... in my study of terran and betazoid conjugal rites ,
i have discovered it is traditional to present the happy couple with a gift .
given commander riker' s affection for archaic musical forms ,
i have elected to present the following as my gift in honor of their conjugation .
conjugation !
never saw the sun
shining so bright
never saw things
going so right
noticing the days
hurrying by
when you' re in love
my , how they fly
oh , blue skies
smiling at me
irving berlin ...
nothing but blue skies
do i see ...
it' s tradition , worf .
you , of all people , should appreciate that .
i will not do it !
won' t do what , mr. worf ?
captain , i do not think it is appropriate for a starfleet officer to appear ... naked .
oh , come now .
a big , handsome , strapping fellow like you ?
what can you be afraid of ?
captain , i am picking up an unusual electromagnetic signature from the kolarun system .
what sort of signature ?
positronic .
it' s very faint , but i' ve isolated it to the third planet in the kolarun system .
what do we know about it ?
uncharted .
we' il have to get closer for a more detailed scan .
theories ?
since positronic signatures have only been known to emanate from androids such as myself , it is logical to theorize there is an android on kolarus ill .
just what i was afraid of .
captain ?
diverting to the kolarus system takes us awfully close to the romulan neutral zone .
it' s still well on our side .
i think , uh ...
i think it' s worth taking a look .
don' t worry , number one .
we' il still have you to betazed with plenty of time to spare .
thank you , sir .
where we will all honor the betazoid tradition .
now , if you' il excuse me ,
i' il be in the gym .
mr. branson , lay in a course for the kolarun system .
warp five .
what do you think , data ?
a long lost relative ?
i' m reading six distinct positronic signatures spread out over a few kilometers on the planet' s surface .
what do we know about the population on kolarus ill ?
isolated pockets of humanoids .
it appears to be a prewarp civilization at an early stage of industrial development .
captain , i wouldn' t recommend using the transporter .
that ion storm doesn' t look very neighborly .
it could head in our direction without much warning .
understood .
data , mr. worf .
you' re with me .
captain , i don' t have to remind you ...
i appreciate your concern , number one .
but , uh , i' ve been itching to try the argo .
i' il bet .
captain' s prerogative .
there' s no foreseeable danger .
and your wife would never forgive me if anything were to happen to you .
you have the bridge ...
mr. troi .
i will always be puzzled by the human predilection for piloting vehicles at unsafe velocities .
over that rise , sir .
half a kilometer .
the radiant electromagnetic field is interfering with my tricorder but we are within a few meters of the signal .
fan out .
let' s search around .
it appears to be a robotic arm .
very astute .
mr. worf , bring it to the vehicle .
this doesn' t feel right .
the final signature is approximately 100 meters to the north , sir .
it' s you .
the resemblance is striking .
fascinating .
fascinating .
to the vehicle .
i think it' s time to try some unsafe velocities .
why do you have a shiny head ?
this is not the appropriate time for a conversation .
why ?
because the captain has to concentrate on piloting the vehicle .
why ?
because ...
data !
sorry , sir .
have i said something wrong ?
data .
valve transfer initiated .
you know , all things considered , data
i think you have nicer eyes .
our eyes are identical , doctor .
so what have we got , geordi ?
well , i' d say he has the same internal mechanics as data but not as much positronic development .
the neural pathways aren' t nearly as sophisticated .
i' d say he' s a prototype .
something dr. soong created prior to data .
do you have a name , sir ?
i am ...
b 4 .
b 4 .
dr. soong' s penchant for whimsical names seems to have no end .
can you tell us how you came to be on the planet where we found you ?
i do not know .
do you remember anything of your life before you were on the planet ?
no .
why does the tall man have a furry face ?
number one , keep me informed and , uh , geordi , reassemble him .
aye , sir .
b 4 , do you know who i am ?
you are me .
no .
my name is data .
i am your brother .
tea , earl grey , hot .
captain , you have an alpha priority communication from starfleet command .
acknowledged .
admiral janeway , how good to see you again .
jean luc , how' d you like a trip to romulus ?
with or without the rest of the fleet ?
a diplomatic mission .
we' ve been invited , believe it or not .
seems there' s been some kind of internal political shakeup .
the new praetor , someone called shinzon has requested a federation envoy .
new praetor ?
there' s more .
he' s reman .
believe me , we don' t understand it either .
you' re the closest ship , so i want you to go and hear what he has to say .
get the lay of the land .
if the empire becomes unstable , it could mean trouble for the entire quadrant .
understood .
we' re sending you all the intelligence we have , but it' s not much .
i don' t need to tell you to watch your back , jean luc .
hardly .
the son' a , the borg , the romulans you seem to get all the easy assignments .
just lucky , admiral .
let' s hope that luck holds .
let' s hope that luck holds .
janeway out .
helmsman , lay in a new course .
take us to romulus , warp eight .
aye , aye , sir .
course plotted and laid in .
romulus ?
i' m afraid the opal sea will have to wait , number one .
engage .
as you can see , one side of remus always faces the sun .
due to the extreme temperatures on that half of their world , the remans live on the dark side of the planet .
almost nothing is known of the reman homeworld although lntelligence scans have proven the existence of dilithium mining and heavy weapons construction .
the remans themselves are considered an undesirable caste in the hierarchy of the empire .
but they also have a reputation for being formidable warriors .
in the dominion war ,
reman troops were used as assault forces in the most violent encounters .
cannon fodder .
yeah , but how did a reman get to be praetor ?
i don' t get it .
we have to assume he had romulan collaborators .
coup d' tat ?
praetor' s power has always been the romulan fleet .
they must have been behind shinzon for him to have overthrown the senate .
what have we learned about shinzon ?
starfleet lntelligence was only able to provide a partial account of his military record .
we can infer he is relatively young and a capable commander .
he fought 12 major engagements in the war , all successful .
beyond that , we know nothing .
well , it seems as though we are truly sailing into the unknown .
keep at it .
anything you can give me will be appreciated .
dismissed .
i still can' t believe the captain went along with the memory download .
captain picard agrees that the b 4 was probably designed with the same self actualization parameters as myself .
if my memory engrams are successfully integrated into his positronic matrix , he should have all my abilities .
yeah , but he would also have all of your memories as well .
you feel comfortable with that ?
i feel nothing , geordi .
it is my belief that with my memory engrams , he will be able to function as a more complete individual .
an individual more like you , you mean .
yes .
maybe he' s not supposed to be like you , data .
maybe he' s supposed to be exactly the way he is .
that might be so , but i believe he should have the opportunity to explore his potential .
hmm .
okay , we' re done .
b 4 , do you know where you are ?
i am in a room with lights .
can you remember our father ?
our father ?
yes , dr. soong .
no .
do you know the name of the captain of this vessel ?
captain ...
no .
data , he' s assimilating a lot of programming .
remember , he' s a prototype , a lot less sophisticated than you are .
we just don' t know if his matrix will be able to adapt .
we really need to give him some time .
geordi , what purpose does this serve ?
what ?
this .
that' s a redundant memory port .
maybe the provisional memory storage is in case his neural pathways overload .
do you mind if i keep him here for a while run a few diagnostics ?
no , i do not mind .
data .
no .
you must remain with commander la forge .
he is going to try to help you .
captain' s log , stardate 56844 . 9 .
the enterprise has arrived at romulus and is waiting at the designated coordinates .
all our hails have gone unanswered .
we' ve been waiting for 17 hours .
counselor ?
they' re out there , sir .
captain , i recommend we raise shields .
not yet , mr. worf .
captain , with all due respect to diplomatic protocol , the federation council isn' t sitting out here ; we are .
patience .
diplomacy is a very exacting occupation .
we will wait .
captain ...
raising shields .
no !
captain ...
tactical analysis , mr. worf .
52 disruptor banks , 27 photon torpedo bays primary and secondary shields .
she' s a predator .
we are being hailed .
on screen .
enterprise , we are the reman warbird scimitar .
praetor shinzon , i' m pleased ...
i am not shinzon .
i am his viceroy .
we are sending transport coordinates .
not very chatty .
away team to transporter room 4 .
i hope you' il forgive the darkness .
we are not comfortable in the light .
praetor shinzon ?
captain picard .
jean luc picard .
i' d always imagined you a little taller .
isn' t that odd ?
you may scan me without subterfuge , commander data .
you are not as we imagined you .
no ?
you are human .
why have you asked us to come here ?
praetor ?
i' ve never met a human woman before .
i' m only half human .
deanna troi ... of betazed .
empathic and telepathic abilities , ship' s counselor all this i knew , but i never knew you were so ... beautiful .
you seem quite familiar with our personnel .
oh , i am , commander riker .
may i touch your hair ?
we came to romulus on a matter we were assured was of great importance .
if you have anything to say to us as representatives of the federation , i suggest you do it now .
yes .
i' m sorry , captain .
there is so much we need to talk about .
i would be interested to know what we are talking about .
unity , captain .
tearing down the walls between us , to recognize that we are one .
i' m talking of the thing that makes us the same peace .
we want peace .
right now , you' re thinking ,
this all sounds too good to be true .
but you' re also thinking that the chance for peace is too promising to ignore .
am i right ?
yes .
then perhaps it' s time to add some illumination to our discussion .
computer , raise the lighting four levels .
when i was very young ,
i was stricken with an odd disease .
i developed a hypersensitivity to sound .
even the slightest whisper caused me agony .
no one could do anything about it .
finally , i was taken to a doctor who had some experience of terran illnesses and he diagnosed me with shalaft' s syndrome .
do you know of it , captain ?
yes .
then you know it' s a very rare syndrome .
genetic .
apparently , all the male members of a family have it .
eventually , i was treated , and now i can hear as well as you can , captain .
i can see as well as you can .
i can feel ... everything you feel .
in fact , i feel exactly what you feel ... don' t i , jean luc ?
come to dinner tomorrow on romulus , just the two of us .
or should i say ... just the one of us ?
i think you' il be wanting this .
till tomorrow then , captain .
we have much to discuss .
computer , return lighting to previous level .
there' s no doubt , captain right down to your aggressive strain of shalaft' s syndrome .
he' s a clone .
they probably used a hair follicle or a skin cell .
why ?
i intend to find out , number one .
inform starfleet of the situation .
i need to know where the hell he came from .
counselor .
we supported you , shinzon , when you assassinated the senate .
you told us the timing was perfect for an attack on the federation .
i don' t understand why now , you delay .
you don' t have to understand .
and bringing the enterprise here
what possible purpose could that serve ?
i have a purpose .
then perhaps you' il enlighten us .
silence from you !
you really must learn patience , commander .
spend 18 hours every day under the lash of a romulan guard , and you' il soon understand patience .
now go .
commander donatra .
please , remain .
there' s a word
i want you to consider : allegiance .
it' s something i demand from those who serve me .
do i serve you ?
yes .
and i think , faithfully .
commander suran , on the other hand ... gives me pause .
here' s another word , praetor : trust .
do you trust me ?
how far does that trust extend ?
how ... deep does it go ?
what must a commander do to prove herself faithful to you ?
what must a woman do ?
you ... are not a woman .
you are a romulan .
serve me faithfully , and you will be rewarded .
keep those lovely eyes on commander suran .
and at the first sign of treachery ...
dispose of him .
then you will have proven yourself .
now go .
and , commander ...
if you ever touch me again ...
i' il kill you .
the romulans had somehow gained possession of your dna and i had been created .
and when i was ready , they were going to replace you with me ... put a romulan agent at the heart of starfleet .
it was a bold plan .
what happened ?
as happens frequently here on romulus ... a new government came to power .
they decided to abandon the plan .
they were afraid that i might be discovered , that it would lead to war .
not quite the face you remember .
not quite .
a lifetime of violence will do that .
they broke my nose my jaw ... but so much is the same .
the eyes ...
surely you recognize the eyes .
yes .
our eyes reflect our lives , don' t they ?
and yours are so confident .
so i' m not as tall as you expected .
well , i had always hoped i might hit two meters .
as had l .
how did you end up on remus ?
they sent me there to die .
how could a mere human survive the dilithium mines ?
not that it mattered , as i was no longer part of their plans against the federation .
in those terrible depths lived only the damned .
together with the reman slaves , i was condemned to an existence of unceasing labor and starvation under the brutal heel of the romulan guards .
only the very strongest had any hope of survival .
i was only a child when they took me .
then i didn' t see the sun or the stars again for nearly ten years .
the only thing the romulan guards hated more than the remans was me .
but one man took pity on me .
the man that became my viceroy .
he protected me from the cruelty of the guards and taught me how to survive .
and in that dark place where there was nothing of myself
i found my reman brothers .
they showed me the only true kindness i have ever known .
you' re doing this to liberate the remans ?
that is the single thought behind everything i have done from building the scimitar at a secret base to assembling my army finally coming to romulus in force .
i knew they would never give us our freedom .
i would have to take it .
and how many romulans died for your freedom ?
too many .
but the point is , that finally the empire is realizing that there is a better way .
and that way is peace .
you don' t trust me .
i have no reason to .
you have every reason .
if you had lived my life and experienced the suffering of my people you would be standing where i am .
and if you had lived my life , you would understand my responsibility to the federation .
i cannot allow my personal feelings to unduly influence my decisions .
all i have are my personal feelings .
i want to know what it means to be human .
the remans have given me a future , but you can tell me about my past .
i can tell you about my past .
were we picards always warriors ?
i think of myself as an explorer .
i think of myself as an explorer .
well , were we always explorers ?
i was the first picard to leave our solar system .
it caused quite a stir in the family .
but ...
i' d spent my youth ...
looking up at the stars dreaming about what was up there .
about ...
new worlds .
i' m trying to believe you , shinzon .
if there is one ideal that the federation holds most dear it is that all men ... all races can be united .
what better example than a starfleet captain standing in the romulan senate .
nothing would make me more proud than to take your hand in friendship ... in time ... when that trust has been earned .
captain , we have had an unauthorized access into the main computer .
source ?
it' s going to take some time to figure that out , captain .
the data stream was rerouted through substations all over the ship .
what programs were accessed ?
well ... that' s what i can' t figure out .
it' s mostly just basic stellar cartography .
star charts , communications protocols , some uplinks from colony tracking stations .
it' s not even restricted material .
nevertheless , we must learn the source .
keep me informed .
captain , there' s something else .
i was reviewing the sensor logs .
look at this .
when the scimitar de cloaked there was a momentary spike in the tertiary em band .
there .
you' re not going to believe this .
it' s thalaron .
i thought thalaron radiation was theoretical .
which is why our initial scans didn' t pick it up , but he' s got it , captain .
thalaron research was banned in the federation because of its biogenic properties .
it has the ability to consume organic material at the subatomic level .
i can' t overestimate the danger of thalaron radiation , jean luc .
a microscopic amount could kill every living thing on this ship in a matter of seconds .
i understand .
keep on it .
i want to know what he has and how we can neutralize any threat .
i need options .
this was a mistake .
we' re wasting time .
my time .
and i shall spend it how i choose .
do not forget our mission , shinzon .
we must act now .
we' il return to the scimitar .
i was merely curious about him .
come .
beverly , come in .
remember him ?
he was a bit cocky as i recall .
he was a damned fool .
selfish , ambitious very much in need of seasoning .
he turned out all right .
i really wanted to believe shinzon .
but this thalaron radiation just can' t be explained away .
whatever he' s after , it isn' t peace .
is he very much the way you were ?
oh , yes .
data to captain picard .
go ahead , data .
captain , geordi and i have identified the source of the unauthorized computer access and i believe we have found a way to gain a tactical advantage .
on my way .
will ... as ship' s counselor , i recommend you get some sleep .
some honeymoon .
come to bed .
imzadi .
imzadi .
no .
he can never know you as i can .
he can never touch you as i can .
this isn' t real .
feel my lips .
i' m with you , imzadi .
i' il always be with you now .
no !
this isn' t real .
deanna ... what' s the matter ?
no .
deanna .
deanna .
deanna !
no !
the bond has been broken .
find her again .
praetor , we' ve received the transponder signal .
it' s accelerating .
you have no more time for games .
have the doctors prepare .
transport .
begin the download .
tea .
hot .
aside from slightly elevated levels of adrenaline and serotonin , you' re perfectly normal .
deanna ... can you describe it ?
it was a ...
it was a violation .
shinzon' s viceroy seems to have the ability to reach into my thoughts .
i' ve become a liability .
i request to be relieved of my duties .
permission denied .
if you can endure more of these assaults ,
i need you at my side , now more than ever .
the enterprise is far from federation space and ...
worf !
shields up !
hello , jean luc .
why am i here ?
why have you done this ?
i was lonely .
what are you going to do ?
i need a sample of your blood .
what is it your borg friends say ?
resistance is futile .
oh , yes the android .
the bait you couldn' t refuse .
all of this so you could capture me .
don' t be so vain .
after we found it , we had to make a few modifications .
an extra memory port , a hidden transponder .
i' ve now gained access to starfleet' s communications protocol .
i now know the exact location of your entire fleet .
you may go .
where ?
out of my sight .
what is all this about ?
it' s about destiny , picard .
it' s about a reman outcast .
you' re not reman .
and i' m not quite human .
so what am l ?
