29 . 970
ladies and gentlemen , please welcome robin williams
thank you !
peace !
are you safe up there ?
thank you !
thank you !
thank you !
oh , yes !
oh , yes , my little semain head friend !
ok .
good night !
thank you very much !
thank you for the standing ovations !
we had the orgasm up front .
let' s have a cigarette , let' s relax .
we are here in new york , fucking new york !
yes !
obviously this is not gonna be a normal night of theater !
this will be shakespeare with a strap on !
so that' s the way you like it !
welcome to my beautiful set from the musical " fantastic voyage " !
or maybe the last thing a clitoris sees !
i' m over here !
i' m down here !
this is brought to you by hbo , a subsidiary of time warner , also owned by america on line ..
you' ve got mail .
i hope you don' t have stocks !
welcome !
don' t be afraid !
it was very reassuring the other day ...
george w. bush talked to the stock market and ...
him talking about business ethics it' s like having a leopard giving you a facial .
it doesn' t really work !
a lot of our imports come from other countries " .
no shit , jason ? !
moving right along ...
meanwhile , michael is protesting ...
i don' t know , baby ...
it was strange enought when michael was the best man at lisa' s wedding .
that for me was like you' re pushing the term , my man !
that was a pretty short list .
was richard simmons hunting ?
what are you doing ?
i' m the best man !
now michael is claming rasism .
honey , you gotta pick a race first .
what are you claiming there ?
mistreatment of elfs ?
girl , you gotta pick a gender , too .
what are you going for ?
you were diana ross .
now you just left it all behind .
michael , you' re not a freak .
you' re just surgically enhanced ... and you spend more money than the vatican .
you must be this high to ride michael
obviously , the lawyers at hbo are going , " fuck !
how fucked up would you have to be for al sharpton to go , ' i' m outta here , man ! '
if al sharpton bails on your ass , even rats are going , ' man , that guy' s quick ! '
from the don king school of hair processing ...
he' s riding for office in idaho on the
what a fucking , wild , crazy chance in hell you' il be elected " ticket .
sorry , my lips just went ...
thank you , habib !
thank you !
we were worried about the pledge of the legions .
one nation under dog !
it' s ok .
i' ve got a cure for this !
one nation under canada , above mexico .
but then you have to the whole ...
someone bless america !
on a dollar bill , instead of " in god we trust " ,
in gates we trust " !
mr gates , when did you realize you' re creating monopoly !
monopoly is just a game , senator .
i' m trying to control the fucking world .
have you seen windows millenium ?
right now it' s information technology .
soon it will be total information technology .
tlt .
and when you' re sucking on the tit , i have you by the motherboard .
don' t be afraid !
it' s a nice day in new york , my people .
ny police have a catch and release program .
way to go !
stop !
ok , go on again !
you there !
get the fuck outta here !
i like ny on a day like today .
for a while everything went like you' re ok .
have a nice day , asshole !
fuck you , my friend !
enjoy your day !
but the most beautiful thing about a day like today in ny is that the ladies take the twins for a walk !
oh , yeah , the titties are out today !
on a hot day all the titties are out there .
and god made them go like ...
beautiful tiddies , all shapes , sizes and women running they are going ...
and then they hit a breeze and chicken' s done !
yeah , baby !
i didn' t make those !
fake titts are like nazies .
they don' t laugh , they don' t dance , they' re just ...
i' m walking here !
i' ve seen a woman turn and the titts stayed there .
it' s like they don' t have any teeth becayse they knock them out .
i' ve seen titts that are really bad with the nipples on the top .
they looke like culroy .
when you go up madison avenue you see some hardcore surgery like ...
i' m so scared , but i can' t express it .
what are these lumps under my eyes ?
those are your titts , madam !
and what' s this ?
don' t ask , mrs trotki !
this is good news for you .
and girls getting buttocks injections ... ?
look , i don' t have any wrinkles .
you also have no expression .
you look like you' ve had a slight coma , but you' re beautiful .
baby , i want you to get your titts done for me !
do it for me .
do it for your daddy man .
ok , daddy man !
than i want you to get your balls done for me , ok ?
i want you to get those big old basket balls .
so when you do the baywatch thingy , it' s like ...
nothing drives a woman crazy like a big old easter bascket on her bunny .
you go to the doctor ...
girls ...
payback' s a bitch !
go for it , girls !
' cause you went through a hard time .
this whole winter was so bizzare .
temperatures were like 80 , 20 , 30 , 50 .
it was fucking weird !
i don' t fucking know what' s going on !
let' s just see what happens .
i' m out , i' m in , i' m out ...
i don' t know when to go .
i went to the coyote conference
no , it' s kyoto .
that' s a very good car .
george , walk away .
they say there' s no global warming .
but right now the north pole is a pool .
it is beyond global warming .
at this point is cooking .
is it hot enough for you ?
no , i like sweat to be rolling down the crack of my ass like niagra .
i like my old man' s titties to lactate , my man .
please , don' t wear those !
please , don' t put those on !
you' re not fat , you' re horizontally challenged
big people at south west airlines have buy two seats .
the problem is that they are not together .
and you have to put your titts in the overhead rack .
people don' t mind now .
we' re working our way through .
all over the country we' ve got weird things .
in houston they got enron field .
we' re gonna call it 5th amendment for you .
we' re fucked for you !
arthur anderson put in the chairs that spin both ways .
and now martha stuart may become somebody' s bitch .
no !
say it ain' t so !
i like to consider it more like " severed companion " .
if you only have one room , and i like to call it my " private space , " use the light well .
you have vertical bars , don' t use horizontal blinds .
also , think of your ankle bracelet as an accessory .
you call this keesh ?
shut up , bitch !
you' re inside now , you' re mine !
all over things have been going good .
i' ve been to memphis , to graceland .
i never knew that ray charles had a decorating license .
they' re some severe ...
they' re colours there that have never seen daylight .
take your finger outta my ass , ' cause i' m leaving you behind !
weird shit people do now .
i' m sweatin ' like crazy up here .
it' s hbo , ' cause it' s live .
people playing baseball .
you' ve got a good seat .
yankees are kicking the game , way to go !
they did a good job .
they came through .
everybody' s worried about people playing baseball on steroids .
here' s one quick way you tell : on steroids , your balls shrink and your head grows .
so if someone steps up to the plate with a mardi gras head and raisinettes , you' re out !
poor barry bonds !
they won' t pitch to him and when they do it , they' re trying to kill him .
he' s like yasser arafat of baseball .
for jerusalem i have an interesting plan .
it' s called a timeshare , like miami , let' s try that .
jews will get hanukah and passover ,
christians will get christmas and easter and muslims will have ramadan and the other holiday , kaboom .
obviously , the people of hbo are going " oh , fuck off .
what are you doing , you asshole .
i' m very excited because this is my time when i was watching world cup soccer , my man .
i saw world cup , baby .
uh , that' s like football without pads , right ?
for the rest of the world , it' s football .
for us , it' s " a strange sport , played by damaged people .
we made it in the world cup .
everyone plays it .
not like the world series , ' cause the french don' t have a baseball team .
if they did , they would only have left field and no one would be safe .
you know what i' m saying ?
what can you do , huh ?
it is bastille day , alore .
the day that marie antoinette gave the ultimate head .
look out !
we are french .
fuck you , americans , i don' t care !
my friend lance armstrong is racing right now in the tour du france .
and every year the french go , " he is on chemicals .
it' s chemotherapy , you little toad suckers .
okay , he has one testicle , he' s aerodynamic .
everyone , cut off your balls .
you' il be quicker .
do it .
don' t be afraid .
when you look at the world cup , america finally made it .
we made it to the sixteenth , baby !
we' re no longer in the " special olympics " category .
give it to them , they' re damaged people " !
thank you for the ball .
i got a ball .
i kick the ball !
unlike the brazilians .
when they play is like ...
and the fans ...
look , i' m playing soccer ...
look , i' m scoring !
and now i' m kicking the ball .
soccer is kinda mellow , you know .
is a little passive agressive though .
i didn' t do anything ...
what are you looking at ?
bang , motherfucker !
that' s why there are no spanish hockey players .
when a white guy takes a stick and goes ...
motherfucker , i' m going to cut you off now !
and you , freddie krugger bitch , take off the mask , motherfucker !
coming in there !
katami !
sometimes guys do this weird thing ...
they fall down and pretend like ...
i' ve been killed ...
i' ve been blinded ...
there' s nobody near me , huh ?
ok , i' m kidding !
yellow card !
two yellow cards .
red card !
three cards .
green card !
and the referee is so sweet , too .
what' s your name ?
turn around .
why didn' t you call me after the mexico game ?
too much commercial time
mad white man dancing on the field .
moving away .
moving away .
in the world cup they always claim there' s bad refereeing , someone may have been paid off .
oh , shit , say it aint so !
you' re telling me that the oscars are also political ?
fuck off !
there' s a game mafia !
the mob' s hand !
does this pistol make my ass look big ?
love ya !
love you !
hey , love you !
the worst referee was in winter olympics with a french judge .
once again , the french fucked with us !
the canadiens skate perfectly .
we did it perfect , huh !
they fucked up , i give it to them
where' s tonya harding when you need her ?
tonya would' ve been on that judge like shit on velcro .
give me that medal , you french whore !
i won !
now we get to see tanya harding fight paula jones in an all white trash weekend .
trailer park tuesday !
not the nose .
that' s the clinton money !
next is gonna be joey butafuoco fighting john wayne bobbit .
there will be no hitting bellow the belt there , my friend .
fuck , man , give it back !
my balls are in the front row .
what' s next ?
the nixon' s daughters belt for the library money .
be there as my bitches go at it .
what the fuck are you people doing ?
why don' t you have hannibal lector and iron sheff just kick out the jams ?
' cause you got the chamber , the chair , fear factor .
people in texas are going " we got those shows .
we just don' t film them .
two weeks ago , supreme court banned the execution of retarded people .
people in texas are going , " shit , where' s the fun in that ?
' cause they were zapping retarded people every other week .
it was like , " go sit on santa' s lap , timmy .
and i know the definition of " retarded " in texas is pretty wide .
it' s crazy !
you are crazy motherfuckers !
there was a guy with one leg .
they wouldn' t gonna give him a wodden leg .
he' s gonna be dead man hopping .
there' s a moment of compassion .
before the lethal injection , they do an alcohol swab .
which is so nice !
what the fuck are you doing ?
we don' t want you to get that last second infection !
it' s all safe now .
you remember the winter olympics .
they had them in utah .
great place !
what , was amish country booked , what happened ?
common down to salt lake !
we' re gonna party like it' s 1955 .
bring your wives .
oops !
come on down !
at the closing ceremony they introduced
donnie and marie , as the first couple of utah .
aha , honey , no !
they' re only a couple in arkansas .
if you' re going to georgia , ted turner and jane fonda broke up .
jane found god and ted found out it wasn' t him .
about the olympics once again , we' re talking about the figure skating .
i find the figure skating to be kinda sexy .
not ice dancing , wich is polka on valium .
that' s not good .
that' s that pair figure skating .
there' s one very special lift .
where the male skater goes ...
right here !
put on a glove , man !
who' s your daddy ?
who' s your daddy ?
let' s cut the foreplay ,
let' s have ice fucking , come on !
nipples aroused ...
and she holds on without her hands !
i like it !
i don' t care .
i' m giving them the medal .
fuck the canadians !
so fabulos !
there' s other kinda sexual thing in the olympics : the louge , about which i have only one question : what drunken , german gynecologist invented this sport ?
what guy went , " i want to dress like a sperm , shove an ice skate in my ass , and go balls first down an ice chute .
ya .
that would be fun .
no !
this is for pussies !
how will you stir ?
i will do kegels !
i will flex my ass and go down the aisle .
and do not talk to me about two men louge .
i' m saying " boys , get a room !
make that turn , you bastard , make it .
hard right , you fuker , hard right !
i got wood , man , i' m sorry !
you cost us the race !
your penis going brr was 200 of a second winds resistance !
we could' ve won if you weren' t going brrring !
dolphin boy !
there' s always some horrible drug scandal .
this year was a spanish cross country skilor ...
skilor , which is like a skier .
are you a skilor ?
yes !
they accused him of taking some performance enhancing drug .
like an elephant growth hormone .
are you on some sort of drug ?
are you taking an animal tranquilizer ?
and they didn' t bother drug testing the snowboarders .
go , go my little boys , have fun !
i guess they realized the word " half pipe " ment something .
remember the kid who won the gold medal ?
he was in freestyle .
you wanna be on a box of whities ?
no .
count dracula .
aha , a clue , scherlock !
the poor canadian snowboarder , in 1998 olympics , they took away his medal because he tested positive for marijuana , which is kinda redundant number one .
number two , they said that marijuana was a " performance enhancing drug " .
marijuana enhances many things , colors , tastes , sensations , but you are certainly not fucking empowered .
when you' re stoned , you' re lucky if you can find your own goddamn feet .
the only way it' s a performance enhancing drug is if there' s a big fucking hershey bar at the end of the run .
then you' il be like ...
then you' il be like a swiss ski jumper going , " i' m there !
pour canadian snowboarder .
they asked for his medal back and he couldn' t find it .
it was around his fucking neck !
get out of here , you little goofy canadian bastard , eh .
they have weird sports like the biathalon which is like norwegian drive by .
get the tv , hans !
the canadians won the gold medal in hockey .
god bless you canadian people .
you' re so fucking nice eh .
it' s your only fucking sport , come on !
that and a mutant form of football .
we' ve got 13 men , we have a longer field
you have fun , enjoy !
canada' s like a loft apartment over a really great party .
keep it down , eh !
we are nice .
we have jean chrtien , our great prime minister .
i don' t need no secret service
if a guy comes to hit me , i fucking knock him out eh .
i' m jean chrtien .
first was your president , who' s a cretin " .
quebec is going to break away from canada , but still keep the currency .
it' s like a kid moving out of the house ,
but i still would like to get money " .
fuck off you !
canadian money is also called " the looney " .
how can you take an economic crisis seriously ?
the looney is down !
oh , how sad for you !
what are you saying , eh ?
everyone was so happy that at the olympics the security was so tight .
security was amazing at the olympics .
you chose the whitest fucking state in the union !
an arab in utah is like an albino at the apollo .
you would notice !
i found one !
it' s just ted .
everybody out !
the problem was that there was basically white powder everywhere .
you go , man , you go !
pour dogs they looked for anthrax and cocain .
i can' t taste my ass , i don' t know why ?
it' s my tail !
you' re still an asshole , you know that " .
is it me , or are cat' s drag queens ?
' who loves kitty ? '
are these your shoes ?
who loves kitty ?
who loves kitty ?
that' s mine !
mine !
i like that too .
thank god men aren' t like that !
nice car , bob .
mine now !
what are you doing ?
just shopping !
the whole anthrax thing had people going ...
don' t open your mail !
why ?
there' s white powder in envelopes .
really ? !
your mother and i used to look for white powder in envelopes .
we weren' t on line .
we did lines , my friend .
and there were ninjas on the fucking line , trying to kill us .
and now , there are people trying to kill us .
and that' s why i bought a gas mask .
i can' t even get a condom on when i want to !
hey , baby .
yeah , i got a love glove .
hold on .
i' il be right with you , honey .
don' t go away on me now .
you' re playing " beat the cock " .
i got it , i got it !
there' s your penis like a midget in a diving suit ...
i don' t think we' re going in today , pete .
we didn' t make the deadline .
remember when they sent anthrax to tom daschle' s office ?
and they cleared that fucking place out .
everybody out , come on !
helmets , suits , they' re all leaving .
but the rest of you , go about your lives .
everything is perfectly ok .
we' il be miles away .
it' s like when you go to the dentist and he puts a shit over your balls .
you' il be fine !
how can you tell if congress was sick ?
it' s night of the living dead anyway .
the confederate flag is just the symbol of states ' rights .
yeah , and the swastika is just a good luck charm .
when did ted kennedy become jabba the hutt ?
he' s huge !
you' re a kennedy , not a maisy' s day float , come on !
bring him down .
we' re voting !
step away , boy .
i said " no " to the crispy cream .
congress recently approved the covert plan to assassinate saddam hussein .
so what they' ve done , is publlcly approve the secret plan to assassinate hussein .
i wonder if he knows ?
i know there' s a cure for bio terrorism or whatever it is .
and it lies within keith richards , i know that .
anthrax ?
all right ...
doesn' t go with my e. cola , but fuck ... !
keith is the only man who can make the osbornes look fucking amish .
i' m out , man !
i have nothing left .
supposedly he goes to switzerland and changes his blood .
not like one pike , but like a fucking chevrolette , all of it .
i just wanna know who get' s his blood ?
you' ve gotta go on tour , bitch !
we gotta pay for mixed babies .
we may all be dead and gone ,
keith will still be there with five cockroaches .
he' il be going , " i smoked your uncle , did you know that ?
fucking crazy ...
every so often , rumsfeld comes out and goes ,
i don' t know where .
i don' t know when .
but something awful' s going to happen .
thank you , that' s all for today , no further questions .
scuse me , can you give me a clue ?
what is it , the central " intuitive " agency now ?
are you working with miss cleo ?
i don' t know where , i don' t know when , but sometin ' awful' s gonna happen !
and definitely don' t marry that fat man .
he only wants you for your money , girl !
people are suing miss cleo for fraud .
fucking da !
what do you want ?
a blind tarot card before you go , " ah ha !
if she' s a psychic , why does she need a fuckin ' phone number ?
number two , that fake jamaican accent ?
if she was a real psychic , she' d be one of those louisiana psychics , like , " you gonna die !
they have to puck your ass up and have a place for your bike , come on now !
it' s like buying hair care products from cher .
she' s wearing a wig , you idiot !
take that abdominal thing helping you lose weight while it shocks your fat ass sitting watching tv .
i' m getting six pack abs by knocking my testicles around !
you strap that to your head .
and say , " i will not buy stupid shit for no reason !
now we are in troubled times .
when it happened , i thought the statue of liberty would change .
instead of " give me your tired and your poor , " it would be her with a baseball bat going " you want a piece of me .
there was hardcore security .
in ny stopping people in the tunnel ..
in washington they had f 18s flying , air cover everywhere .
in san francisco , not so hardcore security .
at golden gate bridge there' s a hummer and i' m talking about the car .
one hummer here , two guardsmen , same at the other end of the bridge .
the problem is that the hummer and the guardsmen are in jungle camouflage .
for those who never been to sf , the bridge is bright orange .
be vely , vely quiet .
we' re wooking for tewwowists .
beep , ok , get on the plane , come on .
what' s that ?
oh , that' s a gun .
ok , get on the plane .
you could carry a four inch blade , that' s about that long .
now , you can' t even take a nail clipper on a plane .
what , are they afraid you' re gonna go " all right !
give me the plane or the bitch loses a cuticle .
i have a nail file .
i can be irritating .
and if you have a steak or a piece of meat , they won' t give you a knife .
it' s like the quest for fire flight .
sir , you' re making a lot of noise .
hold the bowl higher " .
don' t be afraid to beg , use your hands .
now the airport security is tight .
take out your keys , sir .
tip of the iceberg .
for those playing the home game , this is called a prince albert .
i' m sure that was his last wish .
i' m sure albert said , " victoria , i' m dying .
i want you to name a museum , a performance hall and a bolt through the cock after me .
that will be victoria' s secret .
go , my darling .
say a little song to people that have little anal floss .
and i' m talking heavily pierced .
i' m a virgin !
yeah and michael jackson is the father .
move on !
i' m talking like a hoop through your nipple .
you know , lady ..
i' m guessing !
just the kind when your clothes are going ...
when you have a big hoop , what you' re gonna do ?
tie up a pony ?
no !
or you have two .
he' s and her' s towels , whatever you want !
a towel down here , so you can wash up .
fun !
it' s interesting when you see a girl with a bolt through her tongue .
why did you do that ?
to enahthe the thekthual thtimulathon .
nothing drives my boyfriend crazy
like the feel of cold steel on his hot rock .
but the problem is i ended up knocking out all my teeth and living in a trailer park with a man named bubba .
that' s the trade off , my darling .
you get a tatoo with a barb wire at 18 and by the time you' re 80 it' s fucking picket fence .
and madonna turns into mother hamilton .
i' m dying , melting .
here' s what you wanna do .
when i was growing up i didn' t have playboy or penthouse .
sad for me !
but i had national geographic and the girls that got me crazy ...
you know the ones with the slinky neck going ...
do that , drive your parents crazy going down the stairs ...
mom , dad , it' s also a cd player " .
and you can take out the plate and jump with your lower lip .
have fun !
shit !
don' t touch it , mr williams !
this shit is gonna be more precious than oil .
ten years from now , it' s already started to happen .
i got water .
and if you want it cold , i got ice , mother fucker .
ladies and gentlemen , before we board flight five , we' re just gonna do a few random bag checks .
these are totally random .
has' n' t' been ' seen ,
akeem been' laid ,
have' n' t' been fucked ,
judy smith ?
14 arabs and a blonde ?
thank you , god !
oh , yes , we' re off the list , mother fucker , yeah !
they' re gonna be fucking with you now , habib .
you better learn to go orderly .
they take the knitting needles from the eighty year old lady ,
' why , cause i' m gonna knit an afghan ? ' give ' em to me !
and they' re patting a five year old boy down , and he' s going ,
' what are you doing ?
you' re not a priest , let go of me ! '
i see !
you' ve had a problem too , i guess .
father pats little boys down , like ,
' good game , boy , good game !
wash up , really wash up ! '
they cought them , but they had a divine witness protection program .
find the priest , here' s the pitty fall , here' s the priest , find the pitty fall .
don' t you ask , don' t you tell , you might end up right in hell .
here' s your check , direct from rome , buy yourself a brand new home .
isn' t that amazing ?
the pope ...
applause break number two .
it was amazing when the pope gathered the cardinals in rome and went ...
the only problem is that he' s dressed like liberace stunt double .
i have a solution , though !
' you know , timmy ...
tommy , i think ... !
or the automated confessional , could be fun .
' if this is a venal sin , press one .
if this is a carnal sin , press two .
if this is cardinal law , please stay on the line . '
cause you have to remember , it' s not just a sin , it' s a felony !
so we have to keep track !
right now they' re up there watching .
hi , mr edgecroft .
we' re now under the offices of homeland security .
today is a blue day . " " no , orange " " red " .
homeland security " .
that' s a good one !
but homeland sounds like homefront security , which was england during wwil .
old men with pitchforks and colostomy bags , defending england !
i threw my colostomy bag , covered him in shite and said ' get off of that fucker , you fucker , get out '
and i also find out now , that winston churchill , one of the greatest orators of all time , may have been so fucked up on cognac and champagne , that he didn' t do some of his great speeches .
they were done by a man from the bbc , who also did " winnie the pooh " . will fight them on the beaches , in the air , on the land !
eeyore and tigger ! '
and , he was fighting against hitler !
a man who a book recently declared was a homosexual , and i always thought this was a clue !
that and the leather and the dancing !
we are now finding ourselves once again drown to england during these troubled times .
tony blair , a militant liberal .
here , george w bush , compasionate conservative .
this sounds like a volvo with a gun rack , but ...
here , tony blair , a man who adressed the house of common , which is like congress , with a two drink minimum , crazy place !
i believe my worthy opponent ...
fuck off !
i' il bullet you , bastard .
fuck you !
would someone remove ms tatcher from the chamber ?
this heinous incident has brought us to the edge of oblivion ...
but our civilization shall endure !
shit , i can' t even spell that .
' cause you look at bush and you realize it' s bush 2 . 0 .
it' s a piner release .
it came with certain bugs in the software .
this country will not be taken hostile , oops , delete , delete , hostage .
and you look at him and realize he has a short attention spam .
our economy is going ... oh , look at the kitty " .
he kinda reminds me of a guy in college with a towel going ... gotcha !
you just don' t want him to drive .
some men are born great , some achieve greatness , some get it as a graduation gift .
it' s ok !
historically ...
you must look at it from a historical perspective .
he' s george the second .
the boy king .
a man we thought could only loose , but somehow won , because of confused hebrews .
yes !
w doesn' t speak while channey' s drinking water .
check it out !
when everything went down , they put w out there , but they protected channey .
channey had an angioplasty .
most people wait till it heals .
i' m perfectly fine !
i' m ok !
work your arms , you asshole !
you have to remember , john ashcroft is a man who lost to a dead man in missouri .
john ashcroft dead man .
i' m sorry , john , but the dead man scares me less than you do .
here' s the drill for me .
you know what' s strange ?
it doesn' t scare me that w. waved at stevie wonder .
that' s ok .
stevie' s only been blind since birth !
stevie !
even stevie wonder' s going , " is that motherfucker waving at me ?
does he think i' m looking for him ?
goddamn !
no !
what scares me is that w almost died from a fucking pretzel .
we have billions of dollars in national defense .
they want billions more for national security .
and he almost fucking goes down from snack food !
games over , man !
gilligan' s down .
gilligan' s down .
step away from the chip , sir !
hidrate , you bastard !
his own dogs didnt ' give a shit .
they were licking him for the salt .
you need a dog that cares .
a dog like lassie .
what' s wrong , lassie ?
the president swallowed something and you did the heimlich ?
what else , girl ?
mr channey is meeting with the enron people ?
an enron employee is secretary of the navy ?
what about the harken loan ?
sorry , girl , we gonna have to put you down .
oh , kenny boy .
the feds , the feds are coming .
welcome , boys and girls , to disney' s new ride .
investment pirates of the caribbean .
your money checks in , it doesn' t check out .
sometimes you catch george unprepared and he says unusual things .
mr bush , what are we gonna do ?
we' re gonna conduct a crusade .
and everybody in the room went ...
all throughout the middle east ...
hide the women and children and the number zero , they' re coming !
upgrade .
fun !
today' s bombing raid has enlarged the hole from yesterday' s bombing raid .
we have moved trouble from here , to here .
in the upper right corner , possible member of the talibans , or " concubine " , we' re not sure .
we did fire the 100 million dollars cruise missile and we' re successful .
operation " extreme redundancy " is carrying on !
then we dropped bombs , food , food , bombs .
and here' s the fun part : some of the bombs were little yellow bombs ... and the food packages were little yellow packages .
the real game .
i was here yesterday ...
i' m gonna go for this one today ...
and what was in those packages ?
pop tarts , peanut butter , all you need is a honey baked ham and you' il have a redneck christmas .
who dropped the honey baked ham on the muslims ?
why are we dropping pop tarts and peanut butter on afghanistan ?
number one : it taste a shit load better than dirt .
it' s very difficult to have a call to jihad with a mouth full of peanut butter .
secondly ... or thirdly , for those keeping track ...
afghanistan is a hasheesh smoking culture .
pop tarts !
yes !
got milk ?
we' re trying to win hearts and minds .
how do we do that ?
we build an amusement park " muslim mountain " with gadafi ducks ?
no !
do we have a wet burger contest ?
no !
do we play cat stevens ' records all day ?
fuck off !
drop martha stuart' s titts ?
no !
do we have a children show called " saudi dudi " ?
no !
what we must do is go the way you gotta get a sister .
you know ?
you gotta get a sister from brooklin .
you know what i mean , aha , girl ?
you know what i' m sayin ' ?
one of those bitches you see on jerry springer .
girl , you don' t have to dress like a mother fucking beekeeper !
you don' t have to be casper' s bitch , forget all that !
hit the fan , mother fucker !
lorena bobbit time !
don' t make me , ' cause i' il go oprah on your ass .
don' t make me !
we' re dealing with fundamentalists ...
amish are fundamentalists , but they don' t try and hijack a carriage at needlepoint .
and , if you' re ever in amish country and you see a man with his hand buried in a horse' s ass , that' s a mechanic .
who are we looking for ?
ossama bin laden , one of 52 children .
he has issues .
what does he look like without the beard ?
howard stern , barbra streisand ?
i don' t know , i don' t care !
i know this : he' s a six foot five arab on dialysis ...
why is that so fucking hard to find ?
look for somebody attached to their luggage .
i also know this .
when you see the tapes of him , you see a psychopath .
wait a minute .
we have some of our own !
theodor kasinsky , sitting around with nothing to do .
ted' s played " a beautiful mind " , the home game .
you give ted a mailing list and some tools ...
ted , these people have been bad .
are they bad ?
very bad !
i just want a few things .
i know you do !
or we get charles manson .
great organizer , incredible with chicks .
you can' t use him .
chucky all the time comes out for parole with a swastika on his forehead .
i' m better .
in many ways , yeah .
what would you do if you got out ?
i' d kill everybody .
what are we dealing with ?
one of the fundamental things is in a jihad .
sounds like a country western term like jeeha .
and if you are in a jihad and you kill an infidel which , i' m sad to say , is all of us and you yourself die ... you go to heaven and you are greated by 71 dark haired virgins .
now everyone who' s ever been with one virgin is going ...
i don' t know ...
for my talent portion ...
the actual translation is not 71 dark haired virgins , but 71 crystal clear raisins .
slight difference in interpretation , really .
it' s like instead of " thy shall not kill " is " thy shall not wear a kilt " .
fuck off !
where are my bitches ?
here are your raisins .
you got a pretty face !
how dare you defy that what we created " and gets violent on his ass .
70 other members of the congress start kicking the shit outta him .
where are the virgins ?
71 virginians , you asshole !
i must talk to jesus christ !
where is jesus christ ?
hey , jesus , did you call a cab ?
i heard it .
finally the pc' s .
we crossed the politically correct line .
it' s ok to beat the shit out of them , but don' t do the ethnic jokes .
how buddhist of you !
remember when they destroyed the two buddhas ?
what did buddha do ?
nothing !
what is the buddhist terrorist do ?
goes in the middle of the street , takes the gas ...
self barbecue !
what the fuck are you doing ?
making your deal with your shit .
i don' t understand the whole fundamentalist thing .
i' m an episcopal .
that' s catholic light .
same religion , half the guilt .
it' s frightening .
thanks giving your father has a couple of gin and tonics
i never loved you mother , you know that , dont ' you ? !
i didn' t , dad .
and she' s right there .
tell her again .
i' m the fucking pope now !
than people broke away from that church , the calvinists found him to be too loose .
than the puritans broke away from the calvinists , our ancestors , people so uptight , the english kicked them out .
get the fuck out !
take your pimp shoes and go !
hello !
we bring you guilt , syphilis and alcohol .
here chief , try this and once you drunk it , keep moving towards your feathers flow .
there you go !
we have a gift for you .
for us is a secret herb .
for you it will be an addictive carcinogen .
tabacco is a lot of fun .
and a good cash drop , yeah .
welcome to clusters .
the casino that cares .
this is my wife .
she sits for the full house .
it' s time for the white men to get drunk .
and we' il get back the land you took from us .
have you found jesus ?
no .
help me look for him !
come on !
this was brought upon us by our sinful ways .
i wanna put them on a plane , take them to the ayatollah and have world wide fundamentalist wrestling .
one time only .
a life after death match for all of our souls .
let' s get ready to humble .
here' s the drill .
fundamentalists take it to be " the word " .
not translatable , not metaforical : " the word " .
in the genesis , " let it be light ! " could be a metaphor for the big bang ?
no .
god just went click .
we are all descendants from adam and eve .
so we are all cousins .
that' s right .
there are miracles in the bible .
like when moses , and i' m not talking guns' n' moses , no !
let the jews go or pharaoh gets two in the head .
no !
guns don' t kill people ...
apes with guns kill people .
no , chucky !
the second amendment started from people going like this ...
and that still continues .
that' s ok !
let my people go " .
in your dreams !
god , i need some help !
and frogs fell from the sky .
now ! " .
lunch !
you' re great caterers , i can' t let you go , you crazy people !
frogs fell from the sky .
get your shit and out !
i said wait a minute !
that' s what we should drop on afghanistan .
not bombs , not food ...
fucking frogs !
frogs , lizards , hamsters , shit the heaven seen .
if you wanna get people out of caves , a shit load of ny rats .
hey , come on , raid !
i eat pussy literarly .
bring it on !
please , david copperfield , no !
and then boils and then first born dies .
that' s it !
hebrews get out !
and everybody ...
let' s not wait for the bread to rise .
just get the crackers and the skin off your penis .
we' re leaving .
excuse me !
why the skin off the penis ?
we' re travelling , people .
you don' t want sand in there .
and this is so passe !
the dicky thing , forget it .
let' s move !
we' re going to the desert .
then they get the 10 commandments , that would be ajusted later by certain presidents .
and they get to the red sea .
what now , mr magic , what do we do now ?
we' re gonna walk on the " fregs bocks " , the " frogs bucks ...
frogs backs !
thank you for watching me this far .
obviously , i did inhale .
what do we do now , mr bigshot ?
and he calls to god again and the sea parts .
you' re good !
let' s move , don' t eat the shellfish .
i' il tell you why later .
where are we going ?
to jerusalem to start years of struggling , and later to miami to fuck up an election .
and then the pharaoh comes , the sea closes and he calls his cat like god but the cat like god can' t do shit , ' cause it' s afraid of water .
and then there' s another miracle .
joe , i' m pregnant .
holly mother of god !
you' re right !
oh , jesus christ !
what a great name , joe !
that is so much better than shmul .
way to go !
i love you , joe !
hold on a minute , mary .
so i' m the step father ?
yeah .
i can' t discipline him , i can' t tell him he' s wrong ,
you' re not my real dad .
how did it happen ?
it' s immaculate , joe .
it better be , mary !
it better be immaculate !
i' m sorry i' m transforming joe into ralph cramdon .
up to that point , all the names in the bible are very jewish .
you have noah , moses , zebedee and then you get mary and joe .
we' re just a hyphenate away from mary jean and joe bob .
we could' ve had jim bob , the son of god .
praise to him , jim bob he , who finds the stuff and gets me a job , jim bob
jesus was an only child .
thank god !
who would want to be jerry , the brother of christ ?
that' s a tough gig .
come on , jerry , we' re going to the beach .
jesus' s gonna walk on the water , feed everybody , heal them and get a whole buch of disciples .
i' il sat there with a rash and sand in my ass .
great day for me !
yeah , i' m jerry christ .
yeah , i healed sombody .
come here spot , heel !
look at that !
jesus is a carpenter , i' m a plumber .
you do the math !
and people say to me jesus wasn' t jewish ... of course he was jewish !
thirty years old , single , living at home with his parents , come on .
working in his father' s business , his mother thought he was god' s gift , he' s jewish !
give it up !
it' s an old tradition !
and if he was jewish , and many of his disciples were jewish , for the last supper , would they not have gone out for chinese ?
' welcome to yahweh .
hold on one minute ; no service , no sandals .
okay , you come in now .
you' re twelve .
all i got is two tables of six .
they' re not together .
i also have a table by the window , but you all have to face this way .
you are glowing , so i guess we don' t need that lamp , that' s very nice !
you' ve just turned a szechwan chicken into a live chicken , you very good ! '
one of you shall betray me .
peter said , " is it me , jesus ?
jesus said , " it is not you peter .
simon said , " is it me , jesus ?
jesus said , " it is not you simon .
is it me , jesus ?
is it me , jesus ?
jewish sarcasm and gentile humor .
together born !
crucifixion , resurrection and he rose again from the dead and if he sees his shadow another 2, 000 years of guilt .
yes !
for me , the one big question is : how do you get crucifixion , resurrection and then chocholate bunnies , coloured eggs ?
how do you do that one ?
rabbits don' t lay eggs .
what is this ?
and you don' t want a kid bitting the head off a chocholate jesus .
you don' t want a cream filled cross going ...
we' re looking for jesus , kids , come one !
what are we trying to do ?
you' re trying to keep them involved .
that' s why we have all the saints that did all those amazing things .
they' re all there to keep your action up .
and then we' re starting to loose them .
chris , sorry , babe .
dashboard sales are down .
the medals aren' t selling well .
drop the kid off your back , pick up your stuff , you' re outta here .
we' re gonna have saint prada , all ladies accesories .
but i want a saint like mother teresa .
you can do only small things with great love .
she' s not a real christian !
why ?
' cause she doesn' t have tag shelther and a university ?
compassion " by mother teresa .
i smell , because i care .
compassion !
gandhi never had ' gandhi jeans ' , whether you' re simply not eating and tell the english to get the fuck out .
they come in size one and below .
gandhi was an amazing man .
what do you think about western civilization ?
i think it would be a wonderful idea .
i know gandhi .
he was a prick .
i saw him sucking on a pork hot dog , hitting on mother teresa .
who' s your diaper daddy ?
i saw that with my eyes .
if you don' t believe me , i' il bitch slap you like shiva .
don' t press this .
don' t fucking do that !
don' t go ding dong , you asshole !
' cause india has the atomic bomb , my friend .
they could turn this place into chicken chicha .
india has the bomb .
pakistan has the bomb .
and we' re preparing to fight over kashmir .
and your president probably thought it was a sweater .
what an asshole !
india detonated 700 ground nuclear tests .
pakistan detonated 700 ground nuclear tests .
and your spy sattelites were like ray charles in the louvre .
they didn' t have a fucking clue .
india has the bomb .
pakistan has the bomb .
china has the bomb .
or maybe they just have one billion people going " bum !
russia has the bomb .
we have many bombs .
we don' t know were they all are .
maybe you want a dirty bomb .
and the french have a bomb , too .
maybe they have a bomb that only destroys restaurants under four stars .
they still test their bombs .
they still need their bombs .
where did they do the undeground test ?
in the sahara , in the total waste land ?
no , fuck off !
in tahiti !
in paradise .
why ?
because we' re french .
look a green peace boat coming to protest .
fuck off , i sink you .
i' m the baddes mother fucker , am i not ?
look , i' m giving a cigarette to a baby .
suck on the cigarette .
life is shit .
get to know this .
you , americans .
fuck all of you americans !
americans , you politically correct .
you cultureless crack americans .
we hate all of you .
fuck off !
the germans are here .
hello , americans !
i love you !
come on , americans .
welcome back , americans .
you can build the disneyland near paris .
we won' t go , but build it .
i will have a minnie mouse with armpit hair .
it will be great !
i never loved mickey " .
he has three fingers .
what am i , a bowling ball ?
fuck off !
don' t love him !
but there is one country that watches out for all of us : the swiss , ya !
the geneva convention .
vhat was that noise ?
in their big hollowed up country , with their chocholate and their watches .
ya !
the nice germans .
ya !
or , as they like to say , " the other white race .
how can you trust an army , that has a wine opener on it' s knife ?
many of you , men , have never open a chardonnay under fire .
you take out the wine bottle , put out the cock and throw .
i don' t know , but i' ve been told , chardonnay must be self cold
my god !
where did all this impresionistic art come from ?
and all these jewelry from 1939 to 1945 ?
fairies must' ve brought it during the night .
i have to do the heimlich coughing on an account number .
i know this one thing ...
i know there' s one country that' s not developing a weapon of destruction .
that does not have a secret weapons ' lab up in the mountains .
jamaica !
howdy , man !
jamaica would never make an atomic bomb .
they may make an atomic bong .
when the atomic bomb goes off , there' s devastation and radiation .
when the atomic bong goes off , there' s celebration !
smoke a split for the communion .
if you don' t see jesus than , you never will .
i know only one thing .
i never met me an angry pot smoker .
hey , you fucking prick !
oh , fuck !
what was i gonna do ? !
hold me , you piece of shit .
get over here !
because you see , marihuana ...
i know this one .
wait a minute .
if you smoke a lot of pot , you may never become a rocket scientist .
or maybe ...
if you seen some of the things that happen lately to nasa , maybe you can .
the mars lander ...
i did the calculations in feet , but i programmed the lander in meters .
so , instead of landing , fucker burried !
185 millioan dollars ... oopsy !
two years ... splat !
ok , fuck !
here' s a better one !
the hubble telescope ...
i forgot to put in a lens .
read the top line .
officer jerry , serial ...
the rest is just a black hole .
i once called steven hawking .
hello , this is steven hawking
i' d like to leave a message .
no .
this is steven hawking .
i know one thing though .
pot is not like alcohol .
alcohol changes your moods .
go to a bar at happy hour and see some happy mother fuckers there .
hey , fuck you , my man !
hey , listen to me .
listen to me , you piece of shit .
you do not know shit about fuck , my man .
you want a piece of yourself ?
step outside , i' il kick my ass " .
i' ve already shit myself .
i' m half way there " .
you can deal with the genetic .
if you' re irish , you' ve got a running start that you can do it better than we are .
not only will you kick my ass , but you' il sing about it , afterwards .
" oh , the night you said my wife was fat , i knocked you down and shit in your hat .
and you keep drinking ' till you' re in your 80s and you' re on a dialysis , doing liver dancing michael flatline .
they say the irish saved civilization , drank a couple of guiness and forgot where they fucking put it .
but that' s all right !
the japanese drink differently than us .
arigato gozaimas
tide the yellow ribbon !
karaoke for an asshole with a microphone .
sing , you round eyed fuck , come on !
if ya want a linguistic adventure , go drinkin ' with a scotsman .
' cause ya couldn' t fucking understand them before ...
oh , yeah .
oh , yeah ?
sure .
oh , fuck sure , eh !
sure !
sure , you dumb fucking bastard .
you realize how drunk they get , they could wear a skirt and not care !
and only they could invent a sport like golf .
here' s my idea for a fucking sport .
i knock a ball in a gopher hole .
like pool ?
fuck off pool .
not with a straight stick , with a little fucked up stick .
i whack a ball , it goes in a gopher hole .
oh , you mean like croquet ?
fuck croquet !
i put the hole hundreds of yards away .
oh , fuck of ya !
big fun , yeah !
oh , like a bowling thing ?
fuck no !
not straight .
i put shit in the way .
like trees and bushes and high grass .
so you can lose you fucking ball .
and go hacking away with a fucking tire iron .
whacking away , and each time you miss you feel like you' il have a stroke .
fuck that' s what we' il call it , a stroke , cause each time you miss you feel like you' re gonna fucking die .
oh great , oh and here' s the better part .
fuck , this is brilliant !
right near the end , i' il put a little flat piece with a little flag to give you fucking hope .
but then i' il put a little pool and a sand box , to fuck with your ball again .
ay , you' il be there cracking you ass , jacking away in the sand .
and you do this one time ?
fuck no !
18 fucking times !
that' s my idea of a sport !
the manly sport of golf , where you can dress like a pimp and no one will care .
oh , dear christ !
those are loud .
this is no carnaval .
what a fuck are you on ?
asshole !
it' s such an athletic sport : whack the ball , get in the car .
whack the ball , get in the car .
and the commentary' s electrifying .
just this side of curling , for really getting me going .
third hole .
could people be quiet , i' d like to hear the grass grow .
i' d like the guy who does mexican soccer to do golf one time .
the ball is ready .
hole !
oh , dear christ !
my god , they' re not gardening , they' re playing now , oh , shit !
what a hell we gonna do ?
that was their last domain of dominance .
it was their area .
they were the kings .
up untill tiger !
son of a black man and a thai woman .
not even a german geneticist could' ve thought than one up !
black athletic ability , buddhist concentration .
crouching potter .
and than he goes to the british open , and he plays at saint andrews , who the fucking invented the sport .
and after the forth round , he' s 18 under par .
and there' s only 18 fucking holes .
my god , we' re doomed !
how did he leard to play ?
we wouldn' t have let him join .
and they start having nightmares of golf carts going ...
yo , yo , yo i' m playing through whether you' re gentile or a jew mother fucker !
all the gentle sports are no longer gentle .
tenis used to be ...
untill the williams sisters ...
40 , love ?
no .
that' s good love , baby !
even boxing is changed .
before people were saying " i go to boxing to watch the sport of boxing .
like saying , " i go to stock car races to see people take left turns all day .
no , you go to boxing to see somebody get the fuck beat up .
i have 18 million dollars .
i don' t know where the fucking is .
i' m gonna buy me a big ass house , but i can' t find it .
fuck off !
boxing was the same .
mike tyson !
mike tyson comes along and bites somebody .
let' s get ready to nibble !
oh , dear god , he bit somebody !
i' m saying " you' re lucky he just bit somebody .
mike just got out of prison .
you' re lucky he didn' t fuck him .
you' re ready bitch , you' re mine !
break it up !
we' re not finish .
i' m gonna fuck you , too !
you love me .
someone didn' t come here to box , baby .
i' m on zoloft , so i don' t kill you , mother fuckers !
up the dosage , mike !
zoloft , prozac .
i wanna have one drug encompassing it all .
call it " fuckltall " .
i don' t feel anything .
i don' t wanna do anything .
fuckltall
the closest thing to a coma you' il ever be .
fuckltall
i' m sitting here in my own dong .
fuckltall " !
the scary thing about drugs is that they have horrible side effects .
may cause artificial insemination .
what ?
what do you mean ?
there' s a product called olestra , which is a very strange thing .
olestra ?
what is that ?
may cause anal leakage .
that' s not a side effect if my ass is going ...
i' d say that' s an effect , really !
fire in the hole !
bad day !
how you' re doing , bob ?
just a little anal leakage , ted .
bob , you wanna get out of the pool right now ?
i want science to help me .
god , look at me !
look at this !
don' t wear fur !
fuck off , lady , it' s me !
i' m a fucking chia pat .
anybody who thinks the zoo is a happy place , go watch the monkeys wait for groups of school children .
watch the fun .
the monkeys sit there , like ...
wait for it " .
wait till the teacher comes with the video camera .
now !
because they' re not happy .
even the poor animals like ling ling the panda , she must mate , so you can build a wing on the zoo .
they go to china , they anesthesize a panda , which is kinda redundant ...
they bring him back to america and give him a name like ping pong .
when his chinese name was who shu ko hu ,
bear with balls of steel .
go , mate !
i would never fuck her !
that is one ugly panda bitch .
if you were panda , you' d know that' s the fucking ugliest panda bitch .
i wouldn' t have fuck her with a koala' s dick !
fuck off !
i would rather lick my own balls , than fuck that panda bitch !
there' s only one animal who can tell you if she' s happy and wants to mate .
that is coco , the silver back gorilla .
she saw me , the blue eyed simian .
she was intrigued .
she said to her trainer ...
what is that mean ?
she wants you to tickle her .
ok , i tickle her ...
then she goes ...
what is that mean ?
she wants you to lift your shirt .
i lift my shirt , she reaches out and grabs both my nipples .
and when an 800 pound gorilla' s got you by the titts ... you listen !
somebody wants to play .
should we go to phase two ?
no !
do not go to phase two !
i repeat !
do not go to liftoff !
this may feel like a human , but notice the placement of the tumbs .
this is not a human !
do not go to phase two !
warning !
warning !
she must' ve sense something , ' cause she grabes me by the hand , takes me in the back .
daktari meets delivrance .
cranky !
she wants to fuck his brains out .
watch out , boys and girls .
danger !
danger !
danger !
this could be like that time i put my finger in a crock' s cloette .
could be fun !
would make a great story for a bar .
i had a wild night in vegas .
yeah ?
i banged a gorilla .
where' s everybody going ?
hello ?
don' t call me !
maybe it' s because i' m 50 .
when you hit 50 , the old machinery doesn' t work so well .
how' re you doing ?
great game today .
oh , boy !
what' s happened is : your prostate is bigger than your ego now .
when you' re in your 40s , you go to the doctor they have to do the old ...
oh , my god !
i' m just putting on the glove , mr williams
i went back the second time and i moaned another doctor' s name .
don' t do that !
who' s dr smith ?
you' re the only one !
when a woman has to go to the gynecologist , you don' t want a doctor who has a hobby .
you don' t want a gynecologist who' s also a magician .
how are we today ?
uh , a dove !
what' s this ? !
is this your card ?
i don' t want a doctor who' s a proctologist and ventriloquist .
no !
how you' re doing today ?
take your hand out' ve my ass .
i' m not a muppet .
move it !
in your 50s it' s no longer the ...
it' s the ortho proctoscope .
the colonoscopy .
that' s what w did .
it' s a video camera at the end of a rodeo rudder .
and it' s going up you !
suddenly , you' re your own discovery channel special .
slowly , we' re going up robin' s colon .
this must be what you see .
slowly up ahead , a burger he had in ' 85 .
is that a polyp ?
that' s a fart , mr williams .
to go further up your ass , they blow air .
now you' re a fucking party favour .
oh , doctor , give me all you can take !
i' m a man .
give me 120 psi !
get the presents !
the iar is coming this way .
incoming !
it' s not a ...
no finger !
it' s the midget !
fall back behind the shit , wait for my command !
prepare to make the wet sloppy noise !
the moment they pull outt off your ass , you are on heaven road !
rolling , rolling , rolling keep that colon flowing !
40 miles , blowing outta you !
you put on your pants and floating like a balloon on america' s cup .
come on , jimmy .
then you realize ...
oh , shit , fire in the hole !
tighten up boys , we' re not gonna drop here .
thank you , doctor .
see you next week .
hold the elevator !
fuck you , you bastard !
seven flights of stairs .
it' s me !
roll over , man , you' re dad !
you just wanna borrow a match .
give me that !
flaming asshole .
that' s what you are .
you' re a flaming asshole !
you' re 50 !
and can they make a drug to help you through all of that , to keep all of your organs intact until your golden years ?
no !
can they make a drug to give you mental clarity to your golden time ?
no !
they' ve got a drug to make you harder than chinese algebra !
grandpa can have wood again .
i don' t need the walker !
i see that !
shit !
i thought the war was over !
get me a tetanus shot , if you gonna stick me with that rusty thing !
people have died on viagra .
they had to have an open coffin !
i don' t remember pete being like that .
kids , go get some horse shoes " .
he would' ve wanted it that way .
you used to get that from some strange chinese aphrodisiacs .
humming bird eyelash and rhino horn .
to give you great masculinity .
but now you' re on viagra .
you' re frankencock !
you are the inseminator !
you are ready to go !
you' re gonna be going for one hour , one hour and a half !
yeah !
women are going : ...
yay , oh , big daddy ...
listen , i got shit to do , ok ?
hello !
yeah , i' il be late today .
viagra , fucking ...
i' il try and get there .
go outside with that thing !
you can' t go outside with a hard on cause the cat just waits for you to go ...
wow , you too ? !
hey , bob !
how' re you , pete ?
i' m happy to be here today .
direct traffic , no , you can' t do shit !
you have to make it go away .
you slap it .
it' s like one of those punch me clowns .
i' m not going anywhere !
you have to freeze it up .
in the old days was ...
now , after an hour and a half , you' ve got more semen than the fifth fleet .
so , when you go , it' s like ...
oh , my eyes !
now you know how it feels , asshole !
aim for the titts , hawk eye !
i' m like the lawn boy .
get out !
save yourselves !
not the drapes !
too late ..
i own them now .
we still got an erection , chief !
give me blood , give me urine , any fluid !
oh , god , please make this fucking shit go away !
you do every goofy , fucking orgasmic thing ...
don' t touch it !
don' t look at it !
don' t even think about it !
and then you realize that god gave you a penis and a brain .
and only enough blood to run one at a time .
you have lost thoughts from your childhood .
my turn !
you can' t fucking be serious !
look at me , i' m glue boy !
what are you doing ?
that' s right , corky !
time to saddle up .
we' re heading south of the border .
you gotta please missy .
do we look like this ?
are you almost there ?
no , no , no .
i will finish !
i love you !
i love you !
i will finish .
i can take it .
i just can' t feel my tongue .
who' s your daddy ?
i love you !
i will finish .
good night !
thank you !
thank you !
this night for new york !
what are we gonna do tonight ?
good night !
you' re the best !
we did it !
my pink lady ...
subtitling : aurafas@ yahoo . com
