there are so many show offs in journalism .
so many braggarts and jerks .
they are always selling , always working the room , always trying to make themselves look hotter than they actually are .
the good news is , reporters like that make it easy to distinguish yourself .
lf you' re even a little bit humble , a little self effacing or solicitous , you stand out .
so you bring a co worker lunch if he' s buried under a deadline , you remember birthdays .
lt' s true , journalism is hard work , everybody' s under pressure , everybody' s grinding to get the issue out .
nobody' s getting any sleep , but you are allowed to smile every once in a while .
l mean , even woodward and bernstein went out for a burger now and then , and they won a pulitzer .
some reporters think it' s political content that makes a story memorable .
l think it' s the people you find their quirks , their flaws , what makes them funny , what makes them human .
journalism is just the art of capturing behavior .
you have to know who you' re writing for .
and you have to know what you' re good at .
l record what people do ,
l find out what moves them , what scares them , and i write that down .
that way , they are the ones telling the story .
you know what ?
those kind of pieces can win pulitzers too .
contributing writer for harper' s magazine , contributing writer for george magazine , contributing writer for rolling stone , and of course , associate editor of the new republic magazine in washington d. c.
sorry if i' m beaming , but , you know , i was his journalistic muse .
it' s true .
just seven years ago , he was sitting right there .
i' m sorry .
right there .
and i was doing the exact same thing you guys are doing grinding out pieces and then having horrid nightmares of mrs. duke and her infamous red pen .
and see what happens when greatness is demanded of you ?
now he' s at the new republic .
and now i' m at the new republic .
ln may , the editors of the new republic magazine ... ... with the washington post , the new republic , and the boston globe .
but the bill was blasted in the new republic this week .
you' re very helpful .
l just wanted to get a confirmation ...
so , i said , " network news , network news .
hmm .
oh , right , that' s that show that' s on every night between those " fixodent " commercials , right ? " that shut him up .
hey , steve .
hey , steve .
hey , guys .
gloria , that necklace is you .
thanks , doll .
i got some new merchandise .
for your girlfriend .
as soon as i get this piece done .
how is it coming ?
horrible .
uh huh .
it' s the fundamental nature of the magazine , lew .
mallory , can i get some copies ?
sure .
people want photographs , they can buy newsweek .
they do buy newsweek .
and time , and us news & world report .
and our losses are a joke .
let me guess .
he' s on you again about a redesign .
yeah , cover page and graphics .
and photographs .
let me remind you steve , this magazine hasn' t changed its look since the ' 80s .
how is it ?
it' s good .
you hate it .
no , it' s good , it' s a little rough .
no , it' s the worst thing i ever wrote .
it' s horrible .
lf you guys don' t help me with it , i' m not even going to send it in .
when is it due ?
tomorrow .
tsk ...
i may have to kill myself .
i mean , the new york times magazine !
will you guys help me with it , please ?
of course .
of course .
thank you .
call for you on three , sweetie someone from policy review .
when did you start talking to policy review ?
i' m not .
it' s probably nothing .
send it to my voicemail , okay ?
oh , and sweetie ... ?
mm hmm ?
caitlin just told me that she needs gifts for ... two showers next week ?
you think you might have something for her ?
i' il get my box .
i couldn' t resist .
so , do you want to do this now , or
yeah , in a second .
i have to return a quick phone call .
i got you some gum .
oh ... !
lf i were to throw a party , where all we did was play " monopoly ,
would you guys come ?
could i be the little shoe ?
of course .
the lawyers have asked us to tone down the cover on serbia .
they have ?
it might invite charges of libel .
i know a little bit of libel law , it' s only relevant if the person in question has been out of the public eye .
well , yes .
so there is serbia , hidden , unknown to the world at large , until ... it appeared on the cover of the new republic .
our weekly circulation of 80, 000 .
81 . 5 .
you almost done with it , rob ?
two days .
tops .
yes , two days from chanukah .
hey , it' s basically finished for the most part .
next up .
amy ?
just finished the piece on ethanol subsidies .
there are 16, 800 magazines in this country .
but only one calls itself " the in flight magazine of air force one .
and that' s the thrill of working at the new republic .
you' re underpaid , the hours are brutal , but what you write gets read by people who matter .
presidents , lawmakers your work can actually influence public policy .
that' s that' s an amazing privilege , and a huge responsibility .
i' m sorry .
they don' t want to hear the whole " journalistic responsibility " speech do you ?
you just want to know how to get your name in print , right ?
that sounds familiar .
okay .
let me take you through the life of your typical piece so you can see what some of the hurdles are .
we' il use one i wrote last year , about a bunch of young republicans at a conservatives ' convention .
now , journalism is about pursuing the truth .
and i would never encourage you to do anything sneaky or dishonest in pursuit of a story , such as assuming a phony identity .
i don' t know , man .
it seemed like a pretty good turnout to me .
no , man .
conservatism is dead .
dead ?
we' re lost .
damn straight .
on a story like that , your notes are crucial .
you have to record everything you see and hear .
every quote , every detail ... all the way down to the mini bottles in the fridge .
we' re like this guy who has to pee ,
lost in the desert , looking for a tree .
that' s true .
completely true .
you guys know what you' re shopping for , right ?
yeah , totally .
get us a real " heifer .
the fatter the better .
bad acne would be a bonus .
let' s do it !
hey , steve .
hey , chuck .
what are you working on ?
a piece gabriel garca marquez wrote about the falklands war .
how about you ?
young republicans at a cpac conference .
pretty standard stuff .
hotel ballrooms , boring speeches .
chicken dinners .
which is why everybody spends their time in the suites upstairs committing felonies .
oh , yeah ?
yeah .
i went to one .
the ballroom was empty .
every delegate under the age of 25 was on the fifth floor getting loaded .
drugs , binge drinking , hookers it gets pretty ugly .
sounds great , steve .
so does yours .
okay , well , i gotta get back to work .
have a good lunch .
thanks .
hold it .
have to give myself a demerit for poor scene setting .
let me explain .
a year ago , chuck lane and i were peers .
he hadn' t become editor yet .
michael kelly was editing the magazine then .
sorry , mrs. duke .
i know how you feel about clarity .
we' ve got to start calling some other places .
i don' t think i can eat this stuff every day .
it was the cannon building .
you had it as " russell .
i fixed it .
thank you .
i really liked it , ames .
but boring , right ?
no .
no .
i really , really liked it .
ahem  yes , dear ?
somebody for you on three someone from harper' s .
when did you start talking to harper' s ?
i' m not .
it' s probably nothing .
could you send it to my voicemail ?
very good .
by the way , glo ' , that lipstick is the bomb .
thanks , doll .
was it " midnight mist " ?
i' ve really got to stop doing that .
what ?
all i do is give people more reasons to assume i' m gay .
i mean , lately , it' s everyone .
the other night , i went out to dinner with this guy from the post
who ?
i can' t tell you , he made me promise .
anyway , we' re walking afterwards , talking about medicare for god' s sakes , the next thing i know is we' re standing on the corner of 18th and " t " ... and he somehow managed to slip his tongue down my throat .
and i' m like , " wait a minute , how' d this happen ?
i don' t understand .
neither did l .
hey !
michael .
do you have a minute ?
of course .
we have a problem with the " spring breakdown " piece .
just got a letter from david keene .
he ran the cpac conference .
he' s made  are you mad at me ?
he' s made some pretty serious charges .
we need to answer them .
okay .
my notes are at home .
i can be back in 20 minutes .
ls that too long ?
do your notes have anything about the minibars ?
that would help .
i think so .
no , i' m sure .
why ?
he claims the omni shoreham doesn' t even have minibars .
he mentioned it specifically .
no , i saw them .
there were little bottles of booze all over the room .
okay .
i' il get aaron and rob into it , and start the fact check again .
i' il get my notes .
thank you .
i' m sorry , we' re gonna have to finish this later .
no , no .
i understand .
thank you .
what' s wrong ?
just tell me .
keene was right , michael .
i messed up .
i made a huge error .
i don' t know what to say .
lf you want me to resign , i will .
i want you to tell me what happened .
they don' t have minibars at the omni shoreham hotel .
i guess i just saw all those little bottles and i made an assumption , which i know we' re never supposed to do .
i' m really sorry .
those guys were drinking out of a rented refrigerator .
a mini fridge .
that' s it ?
yeah .
the rest of the piece is solid ?
well , yeah , of course .
go home , steve .
your resignation will not be required .
really ?
you' re not mad ?
of course not .
do you want my notes ?
have a good night .
thanks , michael .
thanks for backing me .
it' s what editors do .
good night .
hi , front desk , please ?
hi , i need some information .
do the suites of your hotel have minibars ?
well , can a guest rent something like that
like a mini refrigerator or something ?
they can ?
okay , thank you very much .
and she says , " i didn' t invite vernon jordan that evening , because my guests of honor were girls from smith college .
some of them were virgins , and i wanted to keep it that way .
and you are going to put that in the article , right ?
gosh , alec , i don' t know .
i mean , george is such a dignified publication .
you wouldn' t want to put in something that gossipy , would you ?
no , absolutely not .
of course i' m putting it in .
thank you steve .
you are going to make me look very , very smart .
er , the fritos are running dangerously low .
i' il be right back .
can' t hide in here all night , ames .
can i ask you something ?
what is this ?
i found it in the freezer .
you said you hated how the diet coke at parties was always at room temperature . and if you wanted to drink it cold , you' d have to put it on ice and it would get too watery .
don' t you remember ?
yeah , i do , but
i said that a couple of years ago .
steve ?
i' m going to call it a night , but thanks for having me .
thanks for coming .
alphabetized beer , that' s perfect .
drive safe , alec .
who' s he ?
associate editor of george .
when did you start talking to george ?
i' m really not .
it' s probably nothing .
you know , if they stoop any lower , you won' t be able to tell the difference between time and people .
you say that as if there is a difference between time and people .
exactly .
hey !
thank you , steve .
what ?
are you mad at me ?
i told you , i do not respond to " are you mad at me ?
l' m not your kindergarten teacher .
i thought we' d been over this a thousand times already .
you can' t go to law school .
you " don' t want to go to law school , " remember ?
i know .
it' s only nights .
i wouldn' t have to stop working .
i' m going to put these down .
i' il be right back .
no , i want to talk about this .
i told you , it' s my parents .
okay ?
they never shut up about it .
lf i don' t go , they won' t let me be a journalist anymore .
let you " ?
you' re 24 years old , stephen !
you don' t know how things go where i grew up , caitlin .
there are rules there .
lf your son' s not a doctor or a lawyer , you keep your curtains closed .
you' re writing for the new fucking republic .
lsn' t that good enough ?
not in highland park .
i' m sorry , l  stop apologizing for everything !
i was looking through your mail .
you should be pissed at me .
i' m not .
you' re going to throw this out , right ?
i can' t .
i' m sorry .
every station on the radio was talking about it
mike tyson biting evander holyfield .
and these are supposed to be news stations , so on tuesday i started calling a few of them , and i finally got through to one .
a bible talk station in kentucky .
and i managed to convince the screener that i was a behavioral psychologist who " specializes in human on human biting .
i told the guy that i' d done all this extensive research on people who chomp flesh under extreme stress
and what did they say ?
they put me on the air , i took calls for 45 minutes .
oh , my god !
where does he find these people ?
it' s kind of stupid , i know .
it' s silly .
i' il probably just kill it .
does that mean you' il help me with it ?
why ?
do you have finals this week ?
okay , moving right along .
chuck , what do you have for us ?
that' s a bit of a hard act to follow .
very hard act to follow .
okay .
i' m starting the piece on haiti , and i' il be going to
hey .
don' t let me interrupt .
hey , marty .
michael .
i' m going to be going to port au prince for a few days .
uh huh .
marty peretz , our boss , he' s a little scary .
how about the commas and dates ?
are we supposed to circle those too ?
let' s just get this done , okay ?
what the hell is this ?
marty told us to circle all the commas in the last issue , so he could show us how we used them improperly .
what ?
he said , " commas should always appear in pairs .
apparently the issue was rife with comma errors .
" rife " ?
that' s what he said .
i see .
no , i' m not angry , marty .
l' m embarrassed for you .
these people work grueling hours for meager pay .
they deserve a thank you , not another one of your world famous tantrums .
yeah , okay .
i' d resign before l' d let you bully them like that again .
and i will .
do you understand that ?
okay .
thank you .
the great comma debate " is history , so we can all go back to work .
there are good editors , there are bad editors .
you' il have both .
my hope for you though is that once , at least once you get a truly great one .
a great editor defends his writers against anyone .
he stands up , and fights for you .
michael kelly was that kind of editor .
he had that kind of courage .
and that' s what hung him .
hello .
hey , chuck , it' s marty peretz .
you got a minute ?
of course , how are you , marty ?
l' m in a bit of an uncomfortable situation .
l thought you might be able to help me out .
sure .
lt' s about mike .
oh .
he and l well , it hasn' t been working out for some time now , as you know .
the tone of the magazine l think it' s gotten too nasty !
lt' s strayed from the traditions that make it great .
and i' m going to be making a change .
i see .
l' d like you to step in for him , chuck .
l' d like you to become editor .
editor ?
there' s a catch , of course .
mike doesn' t know any of this yet , and it' s gonna be two or three days before i tell him .
lt' il have to remain between us until then .
would that be a problem ?
marty , mike' s a friend .
l appreciate that , chuck .
but i can' t remove him until i know who is going to be his replacement for continuity' s sake .
so this is how it has to be .
i' m gonna have to think about this .
i' m gonna have to discuss it with caterina .
of course , of course !
listen
marty , have you thought about the impact this might have on the staff ?
they feel very he' s earned a lot of loyalty there .
yes , mostly by fighting with me .
the point is , i haven' t earned that kind of loyalty . lf it looks like
l' il be there tomorrow .
we' il go over all this in detail .
will you call me at the hotel ?
yeah .
l really appreciate this , chuck your discretion .
good night .
' night , marty .
so , i just got off the phone with marty , and i' ve been fired , effective immediately .
l' m to be out of the building by 5 : 00 p . m .
chuck lane has been chosen to replace me .
chuck is not an editor .
he' s barely even a writer .
there' s no way i' m gonna be able to work for him .
we should' ve seen this coming the way he laughs whenever marty tells a joke in the meetings .
they' re never funny , but there' s chuck completely howling .
he' s so political .
and stiff , and humorless .
and pissy .
i mean , how pissy does he get whenever you try to fact check one of his pieces ?
it' s like i' m sorry , but we have an obligation to get our facts straight .
okay , let' s not overdo it .
this is still a great magazine , it' s still an important magazine .
and ...
monday morning he' s going to be running it .
i' m going to barf .
all right .
let me get out of here , okay ?
well , i just want to thank you all again .
truly .
i' ve loved every second of this .
good luck , mike .
you too , chuck .
hi .
hi .
hi .
hi .
so ... sorry about what happened when he left .
i just didn' t know what to do .
thanks .
lf you need a hand with the boxes , i' il be in my office .
so chuck took over , and the job , for the first time ever , began to feel like a job .
but i' m being unfair .
the truth is , i wrote 14 pieces while chuck was editing the magazine .
and the last of them , was the biggest story l ever wrote .
ls anyone interested in hackers ?
because i met this kid named lan restil .
biggest computer geek of all time .
he hacked his way into the database of a company called jukt micronics , and posted naked pictures of women and the salary of every jukt employee on jukt' s website with a note saying , " the big bad bionic boy has been here , baby !
outstanding .
the guys at jukt decided that it would be cheaper to hire him as security consultant than it would be to try to stop him , so they met with him last week at the hotel where the national hackers ' conference was taking place .
lt was the chairman from jukt ,
restil , restil' s mother and restil' s agent .
no !
yes , hackers have agents too .
all right , i was at the table with these guys .
restil' s just laying out all of his demands .
i want a miata  " i want a trip to disney world .
i want " x men " comic book no .
1 . " ... a lifetime subscription to playboy . " and throw in penthouse .
and they' re complying with every single word .
excuse me sir , pardon me for interrupting .
we can arrange more money and you can buy the comic yourself .
and when you' re of a more appropriate age , you can buy the car and pornographic magazines on your own .
cool .
after that , after they have the meeting , he goes back into the conference , where all these hackers have gathered , and they' re treating him like he' s a rock star .
then , restil jumps up on a table , and he' s like
i want a miata !
and he' s gyrating his hips like this .
i want a miata !
i want my playboys !
i want a trip to disney world !
show me the money !
show me the money !
turns out there are now 21 states considering versions of a law called the " uniform computer security act , " which would criminalize immunity deals between hackers and the companies they' ve torched .
meanwhile , restil' s agent claims a client list of over 300 , one of whom was once paid a million dollars ... and a monster truck .
that' s unbelievable .
it' s really silly , i know .
i' m not even sure if i' m going to finish it .
shit .
you rang ?
yes , i rang .
why didn' t you get this ?
yeah .
oh , that ...
i don' t know .
hey .
hey .
ls it pronounced " jooked " or " jucked " ?
it' s pronounced , " give me back my article .
adam !
can you give a man a minute ?
oh , yeah .
i' m sorry .
er , it' s just that ... this new republic piece is a fucking sieve .
i started with a check on " jukt micronics , " which is supposed to be this major software company in california .
i went through every search engine on the web no matches found .
so i called 411 every area code in the state .
there' s no listing anywhere for a company called " jukt micronics .
tried the california tax franchise board , there' s no record of taxes ever having been paid by a company called jukt micronics .
tried the state comptroller' s office , no license has ever been applied for by a company using that name .
then i called all the hackers i know , asking if any had heard of a " national assembly of hackers , " or a hacker by the name of " big bad bionic boy .
nothing .
i even tried lan restil himself .
there' s no listing for the kid in d. c. , virginia , maryland .
there' s no record of him ever having attended a public school before .
more ?
please .
this guy joe hiert was described in the glass piece as being this a former basketball agent , yet no one by that name has ever been registered with the nba and none of my hackers knew of him .
i even checked the names of every government
i was just getting some coffee .
i checked the names of every government employee quoted in the piece , against a book listing the names of every government employee in the entire united states .
none of the glass sources were listed .
but there is one thing in this story that checks out .
what' s that ?
there does appear to be a state in the union named nevada .
david .
for christ' s sakes .
god , i' m sorry , stephen .
i wanted to see if you read it yet .
it was sitting right here , you know ?
don' t hate me , okay ?
stephen , you shredded it .
i' m trying to spare you a spanking , david .
you' ve got blind quotes all over the place .
your facts are shaky .
i mean
the line about the turnover at dot was low by 4 1/ 2 % , i checked .
of course you did .
rob and aaron would kill you over that kind of stuff .
this is the new republic , remember ?
nothing slides here . lf you don' t have it cold , you don' t turn it in , ever .
okay .
look , bring me your notes later , and we' il go through it together .
there' s a lot about it that i liked .
really ?
really .
and get back to work , okay ?
the mailroom floor needs scrubbing .
okay .
thanks , stephen .
you have one unheard message .
first message .
hi , stephen , this is adam penenberg , from forbes digital tool .
l just got done reading your hacker article .
first of all , congratulations .
l mean , everybody here just loved it .
but we wanted to do a companion piece to it , sort of a " day two " story and i' m having some trouble tracking down lan restil .
do you think i could get a phone number on him from you ?
look , i think it' s good that you tried this .
it' s good to stretch .
i just
i don' t think you' re writing to your strengths here .
i mean  can l ?
i' m wondering why you' d want to stray from the things you do so well ?
have you noticed the way
steve' s phone has been ringing lately ?
did you see all those editors at the correspondents ' dinner ?
the way they were circling him ?
ls that what you want , amy ?
to get a bunch of smoke blown up your ass by a pack of editors ?
yes .
yes , it is .
caitlin , he' s going to double his salary freelancing like that .
these guys don' t want policy pieces anymore .
they want color , they want nuance , humor .
but amy , you don' t write funny .
it' s a little funny ... isn' t it ?
i was just looking for steve .
he' s in his office .
you got a minute , steve ?
yeah .
do you have phone numbers for sources on the " hack heaven " piece ?
mm hm , but they' re at home .
can i get them ?
of course .
did i do something wrong ?
are you mad at me ?
no , i just need the phone numbers .
okay .
okay .
okay , i' m trying to keep cool about all this , but you know the " uniform computer security act , " in the glass piece ?
supposed to be under debate in 21 state legislatures ?
i just checked off 50 no such act .
beautiful .
and julie farthwork , from the " computer security center " ?
not too sure she exists either .
same with jim ghort of the " center for lnterstate online lnvestigations .
and i' ve got nothing on the " national assembly of hackers , " or " frank juliet .
man !
do you know why this is so great ?
i mean , do you see the irony here ?
the new republic , snobbiest rag in the business
the in flight magazine of air force one " and their star goes out and gets completely snowed by a bunch of hackers .
i mean , god couldn' t have written this any better .
adam ?
yeah ?
as long as i' m grinding away on this thing , any chance you' d share your byline with me ?
forget it .
we' re in uncharted territory here , adam an online magazine going after a giant .
you should have somebody beside you to take some of the flak in case this thing blows up .
gosh , that' s touching .
you' re completely swamped .
you' re behind on the kim polese piece .
i know it' s due friday .
i' il get to it .
everything that i' m working on is so dull , and this is spectacular .
andy no .
it' s not like you found the story yourself .
kambiz handed it to you .
lf i hadn' t been at the dentist , it might be me about to get famous .
so why don' t you just share the wealth , okay ?
shit !
that came out a lot uglier than i meant it .
sorry .
hey .
hey .
well , lan restil e mailed me right back .
it might be tough to put you in touch with him directly , though , or at least until next week .
your story screwed up my deal , i don' t to talk to y
i think he meant  " i don' t want to talk to you .
yeah .
i' m on vacation with my parents , so leave me alone .
what kind of parent goes on vacation with their kid in early may ?
that' s a good question .
i guess you have to know his mom .
she' s a little quirky .
that' s his e mail address , if you want to write him yourself .
these are all my notes .
that' s the number for the national assembly of hackers .
don' t be thrown if all you hear is a dark , deep , heavy breathing .
it' s i don' t know , their outgoing voicemail message .
don' t ask me why .
and then that' s the number for jukt micronics .
the chairman' s name is george sims .
i can' t figure why this penenberg guy would have such hard time finding it , but you know , whatever .
that' s the url to their website . and then , i can' t seem to find joe hiert' s number .
i was looking all over at home .
it' s somewhere there .
i know it is .
i' il get that to you tomorrow , if that' s okay .
sure .
yeah .
he' s restil' s agent .
should l i' il give you some privacy .
no .
have a seat .
650 , " is that palo alto ?
er , no , silicon valley .
you' il probably get a voicemail .
i usually do .
you' ve reached the offices of jukt micronics .
please leave a message .
this is charles lane , i' m calling from the new republic magazine in washington d. c. , i' d like to speak to george sims , if i could .
they already have our number .
i guess you already have our number .
thank you .
i' m sorry .
we' ve just like spoken a million times now .
that' s actually his voice on the answering machine .
sims is so hands on , he won' t even let his secretary do an outgoing message .
who' s next ?
er , penenberg .
oh .
this is adam .
hi , it' s chuck lane .
hi , chuck .
i' ve got a phone number for you .
phone number for what ?
for george sims , at jukt micronics .
you got a pen ?
yeah , sure .
okay , thanks .
it' s a phone number for jukt micronics .
you' ve reached the offices of jukt micronics .
please leave a message .
do me a favor .
call this number , the same time i do , okay ?
ready ?
yeah .
go .
you' ve reached the offices of jukt micronics .
please leave a message . " what did you get ?
it' s voicemail .
i got a busy signal .
hang up .
try again , okay ?
busy signal .
" you' ve reached the offices of jukt " i get a voicemail .
hang up .
a major software company with one phone line ?
how are you doing ?
good .
he' s up to 103 .
oh , shit .
come here , buddy .
should i give him a bath ?
that would be great .
yeah .
how are you doing ?
hello ?
hello , this is george sims .
may i speak with charles lane ?
one moment , please .
honey , it' s george sims .
oh .
i' il take him .
come on , sweetheart .
yes , yes ...
hello ?
yeah , this is george sims , from jukt micronics .
am i speaking with charles lane ?
mr. sims , thank you for calling me back .
l don' t have time for this actually .
we' re trying to have an office party .
uh huh .
look , if you were calling for a comment on your story ,
l don' t have one , other than to say , i wish you' d never run the stupid thing .
that stuff was supposed to be off the record , and your reporter knows it , that glass guy .
i' m calling to verify information .
l' m not verifying anything .
bottom line is , i' d like you guys to basically get lost , okay ?
hello ?
hey .
david .
i' m sorry , steve .
shit .
i didn' t mean to startle you .
i thought you' d like a cup of coffee .
what are you doing here ?
working late .
working on my article , so i don' t get shredded again .
thank you .
you' re welcome .
i always forget to ask you .
how are your studies coming ?
their fine .
i' m just buried .
you' re buried .
right .
okay .
i should probably let you get back to it .
ls there anything you need ?
no .
good night , david .
good night .
thanks , steve .
i got it .
hello ?
chuck ? it' s steve .
hi , steve .
sorry to be calling so late .
l was just wondering did you get a call from the jukt guy ?
george sims ?
i did , yeah .
yeah .
i was just sitting here , and i realized that i' d given him your home number without asking you first .
and i wanted to apologize .
it' s fine .
sort of a prick , didn' t you think ?
i couldn' t really tell because he hung up so fast .
are you at home , steve ?
no .
why ?
l left a message on your machine .
those forbes guys want to talk to us again .
there' s a conference call at 9 : 00 a . m .
sure .
sounds like a party .
yeah ?
okay , night , chuck .
see you in the morning .
that' s weird .
morning .
hey .
want a laugh ?
sure .
the website for jukt micronics .
oh , good .
yeah , you might not think so when you see what' s on it .
i don' t think mr. sims liked our piece that much .
yeah .
and i found this too , from my fridge for some reason .
lan restil' s agent , joe hiert .
l' d like to pause for a moment .
you can' t go into the world of journalism without first understanding how a piece gets edited at a place like " tnr .
this is a system that michael kelly brought with him from the new yorker .
a three day torture test .
lf your article' s good , the process will only make it better .
lf your article' s shaky , you' re in for a long week .
a story comes in , and it goes to a senior editor .
he , or she , edits it on computer , then calls in the writer , who makes revisions .
then the piece goes to a second editor , and the writer revises it again .
then it goes through a fact check , where every fact in the piece every date , every title , every place or assertion is checked and verified .
then the piece goes to a copy editor , where it is scrutinized once again .
then it goes to lawyers , who apply their own burdens of proof .
marty looks at it too .
he' s very concerned with any kind of comment the magazine is making .
then production takes it , and lays it out into column inches and type .
then it goes back on paper , then back to the writer , back to the copy editor , back to editor number one , and editor number two , back to the fact checker , back to the writer , and back to production again .
throughout , those lawyers are reading and re reading ,
looking for red flags , anything that feels uncorroborated .
once they' re satisfied , the pages are reprinted and it all happens again .
every editor , the fact checkers they all go through it one last time .
now , most of you will start out as interns somewhere .
and interns do a lot of fact checking , so pay close attention .
there' s a hole in the fact checking system .
a big one .
the facts in most pieces can be checked against some type of source material .
lf an article' s on , say , ethanol subsidies , you could check for discrepancies against the congressional record , trade publications , lexisnexis , and footage from c span .
but on other pieces , the only source material available are the notes provided by the reporter himself .
steve ?
this doesn' t look like a real business card to me .
yeah , i know .
that' s the kind of clown this guy is .
he won' t even pay to have real cards made .
all right .
my office at 9 : 00 , okay ?
yeah .
good morning .
a few other people we can' t seem to locate
julie farthwork , frank juliet and lan restil' s agent , joe hiert .
we called the numbers you gave us , got voicemails for all three .
and the e mails were sent back " no address " or " account closed .
really ?
' cause i' ve e mailed them about a million times each .
hiert' s online all day long .
did you call these people and get them directly ?
no , i always left messages and spoke to them when they called me back .
and the references in the article to nevada law enforcement officials .
was jim ghort the only one you spoke to ?
yes .
do you have a number for him ?
yeah , definitely .
by the way , what was your basis for writing that jukt was a big time software company ?
i didn' t .
that was added by the copy desk , or during editorial .
was the hackers ' conference where you met the jukt executives
that part of the article is misleading .
l was never in the restils ' home at all .
you weren' t in restil' s home , with the jukt executives ?
no , i didn' t mean to imply that i had been .
sorry about that .
did the fax come through okay ?
yes , it did .
i think the address must' ve gotten garbled .
we can' t find the site .
you want to read it back to me ?
sure .
you gave us " members . aol . juktn . html .
wait .
was that an " m " ?
i' m sorry ?
after jukt , was that an " m , " as in " micronics " ?
no , it was an " n " , as in " not working .
try " m.
okay .
sorry about that , l was rushing .
of course .
but i do find myself wondering , stephen .
why would a major software company put their website where only aol members can access it , as opposed to the entire web ?
i have no idea .
i don' t have a website so i don' t really know that much about them .
i would trust you guys to know better than me .
okay .
looks like ... we have the jukt website up now .
i have to say , stephen ... this looks very suspicious to me .
how so ?
quite frankly , it doesn' t look like a real website .
it looks like a site that was created to fool someone .
i don' t know much about computers .
could somebody do that ?
of course .
very easily .
so easily , in fact , it' s incredible .
do you still want that number for jim ghort ?
i found it in my notes .
yeah , sure .
all right .
605 , 84
wait .
sorry ?
six zero five , " that' s not nevada .
oh .
i guess i got him mixed up with another source .
er ...
sorry about that one .
oh , you know what it was ?
jim ghort was the guy who told me about the law enforcement officials .
l don' t know what i was thinking .
l' m going to have to get you
steve .
give him the number .
this guy is toast .
all right , stephen , in light of all this , how confident are you in this story of yours ?
are we off the record ?
lf you like .
well , off the record some of the things that you' ve brought up the website ... the idea that i was always speaking to these people through voicemail that is , that they were always calling me it didn' t seem strange before , but clearly , there are some problems with the story .
you' ve pointed them out .
one portion of it was structured in a way that
i just well ... in light of all this ...
i just
i' m increasingly beginning to believe that i' ve been duped .
and so we hang up , after he' s basically let these guys interrogate me for an hour .
and i go , " chuck , wh what happened ?
i mean , why didn' t you back me up ?
he goes , " i' m sorry , steve , i' ve got to protect the magazine .
i mean , i' m the editor .
typical .
he' s being such an asshole .
so i' m dead , pretty much .
yes , this is kambiz .
can we have a talk here ?
just editor to editor ?
sure .
go ahead .
completely off the record , and really almost human being to human being ?
of course .
you guys have discovered something that a troubled kid has done , but i still don' t know how you plan to play it .
we' re not in the business of " gotcha " journalism here .
i have no interest in embarrassing you or the new republic .
i' m not worried about me or the magazine .
that' s fair game ,
but there' s a kid here who basically , just plainly , screwed up .
big time .
his reporting was sloppy , we know that .
but we' re trying to handle it internally at this point , just as you would .
listen , we' re going to run something along the lines of , " a trick was pulled , and some very clever hackers managed to create an illusion .
l can' t tell you what to print or not to print .
you guys are journalists .
but ... he could be very hurt by what you guys publish .
his career .
chuck , i understand .
i do .
i would hope if i made the mistakes he made , people would be generous with me .
but ... this concerns the very field we cover .
we have to run it .
and when we do , we' re going to need a comment from you .
so given everything that' s happened , how strongly are you going to stand behind the story ?
i' m looking into it .
it' s really not that big a deal .
you got fooled by a source .
it happens .
they' il print a retraction , and that' il be that .
steve , it' s not like it' s going to hurt your career .
of course , if you weren' t so distracted by your classes ,
maybe this never would' ve happened .
i know , i gotta quit .
you' re right .
can i speak to you for a minute , steve ?
what about ?
let' s do it in private .
we need to take a drive to bethesda .
what for ?
i want to meet joe hiert .
i already told you , nobody knows where he is .
maybe if we go to the hotel where he met with restil and sims , someone will remember him , or have some clue
there were hundreds of people there , okay ?
these forbes guys want to come down on you .
they are highly suspicious about some of the material in that article .
you know that .
yeah .
but they' re going to go online with their piece tomorrow .
oh .
okay ?
yeah .
now
steve ?
steve .
yeah ?
lf we can find hiert ,
i can back them off for a day or two , okay ?
okay .
i' il get my notes .
okay .
let' s go .
all right .
we were at this table .
restil sat here , his mother was on his left ,
hiert sorry , his mother was on his right .
hiert sat there , but restil wanted him closer , so he slid his chair over .
sims sat here .
he had a lawyer next to him .
i forget the guy' s name , it' s in my notes .
somebody was smoking at this table , so restil' s mother insisted that we move to one farther away .
over there .
the hacker conference was near here , right ?
yeah , the building next door .
i don' t remember from the article .
how many people were at this thing ?
it looked like a hundred , might have been two .
it' s in my notes .
200 people ?
here ?
yeah , they moved in and out .
i mean , most of them were kids .
that doesn' t seem credible to me .
all i know is i was here .
all of us were right here .
excuse me sir , can i help you ?
yes , you can .
we' re looking into a conference held here a couple of sundays ago .
computer hackers .
do you remember anything like that ?
are you sure you' re in the right building , sir ?
yes , we' re sure .
why is that ?
building' s closed on sunday .
all i know is , i was here .
the conference was right here .
that' s why the restils only stayed a few minutes , okay ?
because it was such a dumb place to squeeze into .
so they went to a restaurant for dinner , with some of lan' s hacker friends .
thank you .
how many ?
huh ?
people at the dinner .
how many ?
about 10 , i think , including me .
lan even put on a jacket .
hiert was there too ?
yeah .
ls it near here ?
yeah , it' s across the street .
good , let' s cross the street .
you know , i really don' t like the way you' re treating me , chuck .
it' s like you won' t even talk to me .
this is the place ?
yes .
i didn' t do anything wrong , okay ?
i didn' t do anything wrong .
you saw my notes , everything was in there .
i got tricked .
i got fooled , i' m sorry .
what are you being so mad for ?
it was 10 people ?
yes .
for dinner ?
yes .
they' re closed at 3 : 00 on sundays .
yeah , i know .
i know , they almost didn' t let us in .
okay ?
but it was a couple of minutes before 3 : 00 , and lan looked like he was about ready to cry , and so they said okay .
but for dinner ?
go in and ask them yourself , chuck .
see if they would serve a party that came in at 2 : 58 and the answer would be yes , because that' s when we got here .
the forbes guys are gonna have all this too , and dig through the records at that office building .
they have surveillance cameras and they' re gonna check them .
i didn' t do anything wrong , chuck !
i really wish you' d stop saying that !
steve ... come on , anyone can make a mistake .
you know , this is not right , chuck !
okay , i feel really attacked .
and you' re my editor .
you' re supposed to support me , and you' re taking their word against mine ?
you' re supposed to support me !
criticism of the president' s program has been
leave it off .
i' m sorry i yelled at you back there .
chuck ?
steve !
pull the goddamn car over .
yeah .
all right .
there' s been so much pressure .
chuck , i didn' t mean to get anybody in trouble .
okay .
okay .
you weren' t at the conference ?
no .
you know , i had a description of it from so many sources ,
i thought i had it solid .
okay ?
and i wanted the piece to have an eyewitness feel to it , for color so ...
i said i' d been there myself .
and everything we just told the forbes guys ?
i' m so sorry , chuck .
i just panicked .
lf you want me to say that i made it up
i will .
lf that' il help you , i' il say it .
i just want you to tell me the truth , steve .
can you do that ?
there might be facets of this that you' re not considering .
why are you defending him ?
nobody' s defending him , chuck .
of course you' re defending him .
he' s a kid .
he doctored his notes , lew .
just consider that for a second .
you know ?
he sat down , and he hand wrote a bunch of phony quotes and handed them in as source material for the fact check .
doesn' t that offend you ?
of course it does .
he also lied to his editor .
that' s supposed to offend you too .
he' s a confused , distraught kid obviously , chuck .
so suspend him for a couple of months , but let' s not bury him .
suspend him ...
there are also political considerations to take into account here the rest of the staff , the way they feel about him .
i already know all that .
what i' m saying is , if you fire him , some of these people will leave .
i don' t know if we' d still have a magazine at the end of the day .
hey , caitlin .
not now , david .
how' s he doing ?
well , he' s a wreck , of course .
i want him in here , caitlin .
he' s too scared to come in here .
he thinks you want to destroy him .
he knows what he did was horrible .
he knows how badly he messed up .
the part he' s most upset about is lying to you , chuck .
because he knows you took it as a sign of disrespect instead of a panic move , which is what it was .
think about the workload he' s been carrying all this and classes .
he hasn' t slept more than two hours in nine months .
so he got a little sloppy and he lied to cover his tracks .
he' s sick about it .
caitlin ... the building he described , it doesn' t even exist .
he just made it up .
so ... ?
obviously he needs some help .
he needs help .
just get him in here .
you can' t fire him .
i don' t think he' il survive .
you don' t understand , we' re all he has .
you can' t fire him , chuck .
thanks , lew .
would you guys excuse us for a minute ?
... watered down stock , and you know , within steve !
what are you doing here ?
i' m so dead .
i mean , i' m over .
nobody' s ever going to hire me again , are they ?
l was so sloppy , trusting my sources like that .
and then lying about it .
and to chuck , of all people
i mean , the one guy who' s hated me all along .
i' m sure that none of this is personal .
no ?
chuck keeps a list in his head everybody who' s a " michael kelly " person .
a couple of times ,
i said some things i shouldn' t have said ... about you .
so now i' m on it .
that' s why he' s so set on killing me now .
well , i have to tell you , steve , he' s within his rights .
the things you did were fireable offenses .
i know , i' m not saying that they weren' t .
i did some terrible , terrible things .
but believe me , michael , chuck doesn' t care about any of it .
it' s my loyalty to you that he' s punishing me for .
l' m such an idiot .
now who' s going to hire me ?
steve , i have to ask you something .
did you ever " cook " a piece when i was your boss ?
did you ever lie to me ?
the " young conservatives " piece , the mini bottles ?
was that true ?
hello .
chuck , it' s david bach .
i' m really sorry to bother you at night , but it seemed important .
it' s fine .
ls there a problem ?
well , i don' t know .
i just got off the phone with stephen .
he sounds horrible .
did you suspend him , chuck ?
david , what is the problem ?
he asked me if i would drive him out to dulles later tonight .
he said he wasn' t sure he' d be safe driving by himself .
l just thought i should draw your attention to that .
did he say where he was going ?
yeah , he said he' d be staying with his family for a while .
that could only be one of two places .
his parents live in highland park , right ?
yeah .
or his brother , out in palo alto .
i' m sorry ?
his brother , at stanford .
chuck ?
you had your brother pose as " george sims .
what ?
the phony recording from jukt micronics ?
it' s a palo alto number .
your brother is a student at stanford .
you had him pose as sims .
no , sims is a real guy  steve , steve
i' ve talked to him a million times .
my brother and i aren' t speaking
stop it .
you faked sims , you faked a website
you faked all those voicemails  you don' t know , chuck .
restil , hiert , ghort  you got this totally backward .
it' s all crap .
i can trace it if you make me .
i' il find it all billed to you .
i don' t know what you' re talking about .
those are all real people .
they are ?
yeah .
look at me .
and say that again .
those are all real people .
tsk ... okay .
i want you out of here .
what ?
i want you out of here , and you can' t take anything with you .
there are some files , okay ?
i have to put them on a disk .
no .
no , there are mine .
personal stuff !
i don' t care .
i know you don' t .
can i at least shut down my computer ?
don' t touch it !
i' m in the middle of a file , chuck !
back away from the desk !
god damn it !
leave it or i will call security !
jesus christ .
okay ?
can i take my rolodex ?
steve ...
can i take my law books ?
sure .
but i' m gonna need to have your security key .
i' m not a criminal , chuck .
okay ?
i' m not a criminal .
oh , i heard you .
come on .
chuck ... ?
i said i was sorry .
i know .
but you have to go .
bond traders as a rule , do not have much time to loaf around .
and the wall street investment house , rvl , takes its work ethic to a particularly
... one trader is now testing a hand held urinal normally used by cops on stakeouts
a few days after mike tyson was disqualified for biting evander holyfield ,
l offered half a dozen talk shows my services as a biting expert .
l' m someone who knows
the mini bar is open , and empty little bottles of booze are scattered on the carpet .
it was the monthly gathering of ' the commission to restore the presidency to greatness . " '
patriotic prophets will have a hard time holding back this merchandising bonanza ...
thanks , george , sorry for the trouble .
no problem , steve .
chuck ?
um ...
the the thing with george sims ?
that was the voice the voice that you heard on the telephone , that was my brother .
i' m sorry .
there really is a george sims .
l i' ve spoken to him a million times .
he just stopped talking to me .
you know , because of the article .
he was so mad about it .
i didn' t know what to do .
and the guys from forbes were putting so much pressure on me .
you know ?
and you were so mad !
i just thought that if i could get everybody off my back , okay ?
for just a day .
just a day would give me enough time to go and find him .
you can understand that , can' t you ?
you' re fired , steve .
what ?
you' re fired .
you' ve lost your job .
but you can' t ...
chuck ... will you please take me to the airport ?
jesus .
please , okay ?
you don' t have to talk to me if you don' t want to .
it' s fine .
but i can' t be by myself right now .
okay ?
i' m
i' m afraid of what i' m going to do .
and you know , l i can' t get there by myself .
i' m not going anywhere with you .
now , if you feel like you' re a danger to yourself , you can sit down for a few minutes until you feel calm enough to go .
but i am not going anywhere with you .
but i' m afraid that i' m
i' m going to do something , okay ?
did you hear what i said ?
yeah .
it' s a hell of a story .
chuck , please ?
stop pitching , steve .
it' s over .
spring breakdown , " " the jungle .
a fine mess , " " after the fall ,
peddling poppy , " " cheap suits ,
kicked out , " " no free launch ,
ratted out , " " state of nature ,
clutch situation , " " all wet , " " plotters ,
praised be greenspan , " " monica sells ...
hack heaven .
what the hell did you do to steve ? !
he called me from his car , hysterical .
i asked him what was wrong ,
he said , " ask chuck " i fired him , okay ? !
not suspended , fired .
because this wasn' t an isolated incident , caitlin .
he cooked a dozen of them , maybe more .
we' re going to have to go through them , you and l .
all of them .
no , the only one was " hack heaven .
he told me that himself !
lf he were a stranger to you , if he was a guy you were doing a piece about , pretend that guy told you he' d " only done it once .
would you take his word for it ?
of course not , you' d dig and you' d bury him !
and you' d be offended if anybody told you not to .
everyone of those pieces was fact checked .
they
so was " hack heaven " !
you' re a good reporter .
you' ve always been a smart , thorough reporter .
why can' t you be one now ?
because what you' re telling me is impossible , chuck .
go upstairs .
read them again .
this is bullshit !
make sure you go all the way back , because half of them ran when mike was still here .
that' s what this is .
of course .
what are you going to do , chuck , pick us off , one by one ?
everybody that was loyal to mike , so you have a staff that belongs to you ?
ls that the kind of magazine you want to run ?
when this thing blows , there isn' t going to be a magazine anymore .
lf you want to make this about mike , make it about mike .
i don' t give a shit .
you can resent me , you can hate me , but come monday morning , we' re all going to have to answer for what we let happen here .
we' re all going to have an apology to make !
jesus christ !
don' t you have any idea how much shit we' re about to eat ?
every competitor we ever took a shot at , they' re going to pounce .
and they should .
because we blew it , caitlin .
he handed us fiction after fiction and we printed them all as fact .
just because ... we found him " entertaining .
it' s indefensible .
don' t you know that ?
ls everyone in the conference room ?
um hm .
you know what could' ve prevented all this , don' t you ?
no .
what ?
pictures .
how could you make up characters if everyone you wrote about had to be photographed ?
you know , stephen ... if you wanted to , you could do these kids a giant favor .
yeah ?
yeah .
you could write something boring one of these days .
give them a little less to live up to .
i suppose i could .
we don' t want a bunch of teenagers getting ulcers , do we ?
good morning .
hi .
it' s funny ...
... because i thought i was going to have to explain all this to you .
well , what do you think of this guy ?
thank you .
thank you .
thank you , everybody .
thanks .
thank you .
steve ?
stephen ?
we' ve read through all the pieces now , the entire staff , and we' ve come up with a list of those whose facts and sources we couldn' t verify independently .
l know you can' t admit guilt of any kind , but i want you to confirm a few titles for me .
we' re not prepared to confirm or deny anything
what i' m going to do is this .
i' m going to read to you a list of suspicious titles , one by one .
lf you raise an objection to a particular title , we' il fact check it again in the hope of removing it from the list .
lf you remain silent , we' il assume that piece is fabricated either partially or entirely , and it will stay on .
ls that clear to everyone ?
okay .
hazardous to your mental health .
that means it stays on the list of suspicious pieces .
fabricated pieces .
we understand .
can we move along ?
holy trinity .
probable claus " ?
don' t you dare .
spring breakdown .
state of nature .
rock the morons .
after the fall ...
you have to know who you' re writing for , and you have to know what you' re good at .
l record what people do .
l find out what moves them , what scares them , and i write that down .
that way they' re the ones telling the story .
and you know what ?
those kinds of pieces can win pulitzers too .
steve ?
