movielvr 4 counties 6 deaths 30 cases 1 unknown pathogen thanks for tuning in .
1 unknown pathogen it' s currently five past the hour 1 unknown pathogen from sunny southern california with a current temperature of 63 degrees .
and traffic is ... right now .
just a couple of things to report ...
you' re stupid .
no , you' re stupid .
hey , play nice , or don' t play at all .
mom ...
i feel kinda sick .
it' s from reading in the car .
you should have done your homework last night .
seriously ... it' s my stomach .
it really hurts .
josh is gonna puke .
maybe it' s just a bug .
you think you can go to school ?
i don' t know .
i feel really weird .
honey ?
have you seen my tie with the burgundy stripes ?
dry cleaner .
gray and red one ?
' cause it' s not like i need them to go to work or anything .
i heard that .
when you told me you' d get me a job at the store , you totally left out the part about the graveyard shift .
so ?
you can sleep all morning .
i' m gonna sleep in all week .
bye , guys .
bye , mom .
honey ?
honey ?
oh , no !
josh , you' re really hot .
i feel so cold .
you ever coming out of there , honey ?
hey ...
are you all right ?
are you getting sick ?
' cause if you are , stay away from me .
i can' t afford not to go to work tomorrow .
oh , i just need some sleep .
that' s it .
i' m taking you straight to see dr. burke .
linda ?
are you okay ?
oh , my ...
linda , what happened ? !
baby , talk to me .
baby , talk to me .
wake up .
bus is coming .
josh ?
we' re almost at the doctor' s , okay ?
centers for dlsease control
commander lee havercamp , public health service .
don eppes , fbl .
terry lake .
good morning .
okay , our first known victim is joshua kramer , 16 .
he got ill saturday .
we' ve got about 30 suspected cases in the l. a. region , with six deaths so far .
what does it look like ?
it' s not anthrax , it' s not smallpox .
probably a pathogen , but we haven' t ruled out toxins .
cdc' s doing autopsies now , but until we can get something definitive , we' re keeping the residents under quarantine .
all right , well , the fbl' s focus will be possible bioterrorism ... where it started , a a probable point of release .
yes , we' il need to do a vector analysis .
to track the links between victims ?
yes , and to predict the spread of the illness .
the complexities of the calculations require the use of a high level mathematician , and i' ve asked one to come in on this case .
actually , we deal with a top math consultant .
we can get him on it immediately .
i' d love to have him on board , but this is classified on a national security level .
possible bioterrorism .
right .
take a month , at least , to get a new person cleared .
your guy' s already got clearance ?
yes , at the highest level .
here his now .
he' s a professor from cal sci .
this is dr. charles eppes .
he' il be doing the vector analysis .
don ...
terry .
charlie .
i didn' t know you guys would be working on this .
so , i don' t understand .
you just said we need someone with top clearance .
dr. eppes has clearance .
he does ?
you do ?
is there a problem ?
you just never told me .
i wasn' t supposed to .
right .
no .
charlie is my brother , and and he' s the consultant
i was just telling you about .
i didn' t realize ...
here' s the mother of the dead boy .
she' s also displaying the same symptoms .
we have to figure out what this is before it gets out of control .
we all use math every day ... every day ... to forecast weather ... to tell time ... to handle money ... to handle money ...
we also use math to analyze crime ... analyze crime ... reveal patterns ... reveal patterns ... predict behavior ... behavior .
using numbers , we can solve the biggest mysteries we know .
eplsode 3
vectors ... symptoms to look out for include aches , fever , nausea ...
that could just be the flu , or a case of food poisoning .
neither of which show up by breakfast , and both can kill you by dinner .
so , whatever we' re dealing with here is fast and it' s serious .
death results from respiratory collapse .
until we identify what' s behind this thing , we are assuming it is an infectious agent , probably airborne , probably viral .
are we putting out any kind of public health alert ?
an infectious pathogen is categorized as a weapon of mass destruction .
this investigation is classified .
okay .
and if it keeps spreading ?
it is imperative that we avoid a public panic .
if people leave l. a. , they will spread this contagion faster and farther .
cdc and the public health service' s job is to find out what we' re dealing with .
the fbl' s is who .
and the key to both is where .
right ?
where it started .
tracking an infectious disease is a complicated multi variable problem .
imagine ... an infected person goes into an empty room .
four healthy people go into the same room .
only two become infected .
then all five go into other rooms , each joined by four more unexposed people .
more get sick , and so on .
by the time you' ve got 100 rooms ... ... it' s tough to track back to that one woman .
it takes complex statistical analysis and graph theory .
not everyone that gets exposed gets sick .
exactly .
but we don' t know why .
and what do you know so far ?
we have several hot spots associated with two or more victims .
downtown is common to five victims .
could be a possible trend .
that' s too soon to know .
these are the results of a quick analysis of the victims ' activities based on victim interviews .
so , there' s no significant commonalities , but i hope that as more people get sick , we' il find some ... not that i hope more people get sick .
we know , charlie .
so , it sounds to me like what you' re saying is , you need more data .
exactly .
thank you .
both to find the origin point , and to track the spread .
in the days leading up , did josh go anywhere out of the ordinary ?
no .
my husband , came home late the night before josh ... got sick .
late ... late from work ?
he' s been in san diego the last few days .
did your wife go anywhere out of the ordinary over the last few days ?
it' s been a normal week .
she went to work , i went to work .
she went to the movies yesterday .
but we both did , and i' m fine .
downtown .
we both work downtown .
the movie was in van nuys .
does that help ?
and you live in ... ?
hancock park .
glendale .
hey .
hey .
no classes today ?
nah .
are you working on something for don ?
it' s a , um ... it' s a genetics project for a ... for a friend in the bio department , actually .
ah .
a he or a she ?
huh ?
your friend .
male or female ?
does it matter ?
no , of course not .
i was just curious .
i just thought maybe , you know ...
well , listen , dad , whenever i have a girlfriend ,
i will let you know by , um ... by putting a note on the refrigerator .
good .
well , that' s nice .
uh , where you going right now ?
my book club .
mm hmm , and where' s that ?
phil' s house .
raymond avenue .
you keeping track of me ?
no .
i' m just curious .
no claims of responsibility by any groups , domestic or international .
right , well , if it were terrorism , somebody would be taking credit .
they would be putting forth a philosophy , an agenda ...
unless they' re no longer around to take credit .
because they' re infected , maybe dead .
maybe .
just a thought , but we' re assuming there' s a bad guy .
i mean , in this type of case , there might not be one .
it' s also possible we' re just looking for the wrong kind of bad guy .
well , until the cdc determines otherwise , we' re going to have to assume somebody did this .
this geographic information system will allows us to map victims and potential disease clusters with real time data .
they' re all over the l. a. area , from long beach to santa barbara .
now , in computing the reproductive ratio ...
actually , you know what ?
i' ve written it out .
oh , sure , that helps .
yeah .
yeah .
this is an s. i. r. model .
susceptible infectious recovered used in conjunction with the g. i. s. will work to learn two key things .
what' s the source ?
is it a person or a place ?
what the cdc calls a patient zero .
and where is it going ?
where are the new patients we need to find ?
looks sort of like a plant .
that' s a great way to think about it like a plant .
a virus spreads out .
it grows , so to speak .
branching is a common pattern in nature , from crystals to giant redwoods .
now , we don' t have enough data to locate where it started or to fully predict the spread .
once we do , we' il know the shape of the leaves and branches .
how' s it going ?
uh , good .
any more data on the victims ?
11 more .
this is interesting .
a woman who picked up her daughter at the glendale amtrak station ... a man who had lunch on olvera street ... a cab driver .
a cab driver .
commander havercamp ?
this material just pushed us over the tipping point .
see it ?
the commonality of location .
it' s like two trees growing from the same root , right ?
one to the north , and it' s one south .
both starting at union station .
we have 12 victims that were either there , near there , or picked somebody up who had been there .
makes sense .
busy transportation hub , people coming and going .
don ?
i' m not so sure about this finding .
you know , i haven' t had time to test its accuracy .
and if i' m i' m worried that if i' m wrong , the projected pattern of spread will miss too many infected people .
right .
well , charlie , test away .
but we can' t afford to wait .
eppes .
we' ve closed union station .
cover story being given out is asbestos was found in the walls .
the station fits the profile of a place to release a virus for maximum dispersal .
right , which is what i said to charlie .
it made no impression .
it wouldn' t .
you were speaking terrorism ; he was speaking math .
hey .
i just got off the phone with havercamp .
a nd ... ?
the infectious agent is the pandemic flu .
what ? !
a flu ?
pandemic ?
the spanish flu ?
spanish flu .
in 1918 it was a global epidemic .
it' s extremely virulent , extremely deadly .
the spanish flu killed a disproportionate number of healthy adults .
it left towns half empty .
what did they do in 1918 ?
how' d they stop it ?
nothing .
there' s no cure .
they just waited till the virus burned out .
how many died ?
in the united states ?
600, 000 .
in six months .
in six months ?
i think we have to tell him , don .
we can' t , it' s against the law .
it' s his day to volunteer at the skid row shelter downtown , like , five blocks from union station .
well , so what ?
traffic downtown' s always terrible .
it' s worse than usual .
there' s a sig alert because of an accident on the 2 , and you' il blow your whole day in the car .
and then downtown , isn' t there' s that , uh ... ?
yeah , there' s that protest march .
right .
foreign trade subsidies .
it' s a big deal , they' re expecting thousands of people .
it' s a big deal .
meanwhile you could be doing something fun .
hey , hey , like , i don' t know , you could go bowling .
bowling ?
or golf .
you keep saying you' re going to play golf .
it' s a beautiful day for a round or two .
it' s been two years since i retired , and almost a year since your mother died .
now i' m finding there are certain things
i would like to do with my life .
and one of them is to volunteer where people need me .
i' ve made a commitment to be someplace today , and if that means sitting in my car , fine .
but i' m certainly not going to skip out to go golfing ... or bowling .
what if we told you ...
charlie . there' s a really good reason you shouldn' t .
charlie .
charlie .
well , clearly there' s something you' re not telling me .
that you can' t tell me .
but you don' t want me to go downtown ?
yeah .
i think it' s a good idea not to go downtown .
okay , can we leave it at that ?
well , i' il take your concerns under consideration .
wish we could tell dad not to leave the house for a couple weeks .
right .
well , good luck with that .
i' ve gone months without leaving the house in the past .
bowling .
yeah .
bowling .
and i could' ve suggested that dad take a yoga class .
oh , yeah , he' d be right out of the door then .
hey .
the virus may have been created in a lab .
four bio labs are working with strains of spanish flu .
one of them is here in los angeles .
the doctor supervising the research is clarence weaver .
50 years ago , scientists uncovered victims of the 1918 pandemic from the alaskan permafrost .
they found intact pieces of spanish flu rna in the lungs of a young soldier who was killed by the disease .
so , what , you' re saying you resurrected the 1918 strain ?
viral pathogens can exist for decades hidden in nature , only to suddenly reenter the human population .
ebola virus crops up periodically in africa .
eventually , at some point , the spanish flu is bound to reemerge , and in a major outbreak .
and without a vaccine we' re talking about a global epidemic .
that' s why we' ve revived the virus .
the pharmaceutical companies will need it to develop a vaccine specific to the spanish flu .
i' il want to review your security measures and your inventory .
now you' d know if any gen o samps were missing .
i mean ...
no .
no .
we' re obligated by law to report any losses to the cdc .
and what about personnel , have they gone on vacation , anybody called in sick , anything like that ?
uh ... no , not recently .
only three of us work with the strain myself , a research analyst ,
martin grolsch ...
grolsch . " and jessica avery , a microbiologist on loan from mount sinai school of medicine .
no .
that' s impossible .
why do you say that ?
because the spanish flu pathogen is handled only by experienced professionals .
there are protocols .
a release can' t just " happen .
you' re saying any release would have to be the result of a deliberate act .
the people in this field who have access to the virus , they would not do that .
you' re sure ?
you know all of them ?
many of them , yes , as a matter of fact .
and those that i don' t know work for people i do know .
they all understand the stakes .
what you' re suggesting just isn' t possible .
profile her for me .
yeah .
uh ... fascinating .
she' s created a mythological self image of the scientist
as dispassionate god .
you like her for this ?
i find the idea of a " medical hero " interesting .
like an arsonist who sets a fire so he can be the first person on a scene to report it .
i don' t know , i guess it' s a cliche , but i tend to think of mad scientists as ... as madder than that .
extremists don' t have to be drooling , wild eyed maniacs .
they' re often acting out of sincere , if misguided , beliefs .
when they tell you why they did it , they expect you to understand .
well , you' re gonna have to give me a motivation that will seem rational to someone like her .
exposing the dangers of viral research ?
forcing more federal funding ?
i' d like to run down that angle .
all right , i' m going to see the other guy that works in the lab , see where he fits in the sane to wild eyed spectrum .
see you later .
my reaction ?
my reaction is ...
whoa .
you sure it' s the spanish flu ?
oh , yeah .
we' re sure .
what kind of question is that ?
of course , you' re sure .
whoa .
and you do work closely with the virus .
are you kidding ?
i know its gene fragments better than my own girlfriend .
are you looking for something in particular ?
not really .
though i did notice an open suitcase on your bed .
yeah , i' m flying back east for a high school reunion .
which one ?
which high school ?
which reunion ?
15th .
what year' d you graduate ?
1990 .
look ...
i know you' re here because i work at gen o , but i didn' t do it .
do what ?
release the virus .
how' d you know it was loose ?
well , why else would you be here talking to me about the spanish flu ?
besides , the word is out in the bio community .
we' re gonna need the names of everyone you' ve spoken to .
come on , it' s not against the law for a bunch of lab techs to exchange information .
you gotta admit , this is pretty major information .
why is that you don' t seem too concerned ?
are you kidding ?
i know this bug better than you ,
i know exactly how dangerous it is , okay ?
i am freaked .
but ?
well , if it' s in the population , outside the lab taking lives , then the rush to develop a vaccine is very urgent .
the major pharmaceutical companies , they rely on labs like ours to provide the pathogen .
can ...
i' m sorry , can you not do that ?
he' s just doing his job .
actually , i' d like to take a look upstairs if that' s okay .
actually , no , it' s not .
i haven' t done anything wrong , and i' d like you to leave .
you sure about that ?
i can' t stress how serious a matter this is , sir .
believe me , it' s my big shot .
my whole career is riding on this outbreak .
if it doesn' t kill me first .
let' s go .
thanks for your time .
grolsch is definitely out there .
which doesn' t make him guilty , but he did have access to the pathogen , and he does live spitting distance to union station .
what worries me is that the cdc found no trace of the virus there .
well , havercamp said it can' t live outside the body but for a few minutes .
what if we' re wrong about union station in the first place ?
charlie , look , it is a classic dispersal site .
i mean , especially if we' re dealing with an intentional release .
maybe .
but too few of the victims have direct links to the trains .
you all right ?
every minute that goes by ...
i know , i know , people are getting sick out there .
we' re doing what we can .
we' re dealing .
father , mothers , their children ...
how do you forgive yourself if you' re wrong ?
you don' t .
we can' t be wrong .
larry ... you have a minute ?
yes , because we all have exactly the same number of minutes , at all times .
do we not ?
oh , my .
listen , i am working on a statistical analysis that involves complex variables and multiple vectors .
i' ve come up with a solution as to the zero point , but , um ... the experts in the field think it' s right , and i ... in fact , they' re quite sure of it , but , um ...
but you think it' s wrong .
but you don' t trust yourself because the experts know the field better than you do .
to be honest , the answer does seem quite logical .
charles , you' re making the assumption that these people know their field as well as you know math .
and that' s an assumption i find tremendously problematic .
well ...
and how can something be logical and mathematically suspect ?
i mean , as you are so fond of saying , math is logic .
right , but in this particular case ...
you know , the most fascinating aspect of this entire conversation for me is how careful you are not to give specifics about what the problem is .
now since you tend to over describe whatever it is you' re working on ,
i' m guessing that you' re not telling me because you can' t .
i would certainly love to ...
na , na , na .
don' t even ... don' t bother .
my answer to you is still the same .
go back to the data .
right .
okay , okay , of course .
of course .
thank you .
let me ask one thing .
when you met me just now , was i going out or coming into the library ?
larry , you were coming out .
oh ... my memory' s a memory .
all right .
larry , you were coming out .
go back to the data .
patient zero might have just come in from somewhere .
or if it' s an intentional release , a central somewhere .
it' s a classic dispersal site .
busy transportation hub , people coming and going .
the virus was at union station , but that' s not where it started .
the source point is the downtown main bus terminal .
but the cdc and the public health service are sure about union station .
they say it' s a logical place for someone to release a virus .
but if they don' t understand the motivation behind the release , then how can they say it' s a logical place
for someone to release it ?
i see your point .
here' s union station .
right ?
right .
here' s the pattern of the pathogen .
remember ,
like an oak tree growing north , its reflection growing south .
yes , i get that part , charlie .
what happened to east and west ?
why isn' t the virus spreading in all directions ?
because it wasn' t released on a train ... we would' ve found illnesses among passengers .
so how do we explain why the virus spreads north and south ?
well , i don' t know , but union station is definitely a point of commonality for the victims .
i mean , it may not be the only one , right ?
i' il give you that .
and it may not even be the biggest one .
let' s see what happens when i adjust the vector track to the downtown main bus terminal .
see , now this model incorporates more of the cases , 36 % more , to be exact .
so what does that mean ?
more sick people will be linked to the bus terminal than to the train station .
well , you know , amtrak actually shuttles people in buses .
so even if it wasn' t released at union station , it' s still a place where infected people would wind up .
right .
where you couldn' t find patterns
linked to specific trains ,
i do believe you will find patterns
linked to specific buses one heading north , one south .
and this is something  i don' t understand .
what am i reading this right , that people to the north are getting sicker than people to the south ?
80 % of the deaths link to the north pattern .
but that doesn' t make sense .
how can the people to the north be more vulnerable to the same virus ?
what if it isn' t the same virus ?
what if there' s two different viruses ?
two strains of the same virus ... traveling in two different directions .
the differences to their structure is small ... but the differences to their impact on the population is significant .
what' s the likelihood of two strains appearing naturally , in the same ace , at the same time ?
a statistical impossibility .
so it was released deliberately by someone .
i just don' t understand two strains .
eppes .
right .
atlanta on the teleconference .
good morning .
good morning .
they are two different strains of the spanish flu .
the incongruity is genetic , one gene in particular .
but when gen o resurrected the spanish flu , they didn' t bring back the actual thing .
they stitched together rna fragments from a standard lab flu strain with genes from the 1918 flu .
the other strain uses less of the rna from the original pandemic flu .
and as we can see from the pattern of deaths , it' s less virulent .
do we know who manufactured the first one ?
the less lethal one ?
yes .
it carries genetic markers unique to russell labs in maryland .
but the cdc has no records of a sample being removed or transported from russell labs .
but it is here , along with another one from gen o' s l. a. lab .
the virus was released via aerosol spray on two buses , one northbound , one southbound .
the father of the first victim , joshua kramer , he rode a northbound bus .
but only his wife and oldest son got sick .
the other two children seem okay .
all right .
we better start running down everybody who was in and out of that terminal on the day the virus was likely released .
we' il get the county public health department ,
lapd , county sheriff' s ... everybody just moving on it , right ?
well , now that we know about the buses , we can find victims we might have missed .
that means getting them help sooner .
all right .
good .
stop the spread .
bus terminal director' s compiling security videos onto discs .
we' il get it as soon as possible , don .
all right .
good .
i' m gonna get them moving on that .
hey .
where' ve you been ?
uh , bowling .
really ?
no , of course not .
i was downtown at the shelter .
dad ...
well , no one else seems worried about being there .
that' s because they didn' t know .
didn' t know what you wouldn' t tell me ?
look , if everybody can be down there , why can' t i ?
i got this fuzzy feeling you and your brother have been going downtown , too .
huh , am i right ?
okay .
but were ... we were worried about you .
do you understand ?
look , charlie , your brother puts himself on the line every day on that job of his .
don' t you think i' m worried about him ?
huh ?
but i know how vital that job is to him .
you' ve been helping him out a bit lately , haven' t you ?
you know what i' m really proud of ?
i' m proud that i' ve raised two sons ... well , we' ve raised two sons who have a great sense of public service .
you okay ?
huh ?
yeah , sure .
it' s just a cough .
be careful .
it' s , uh ...
it' s flu season .
yeah , well , don' t worry about me .
i never get the flu .
because these flu viruses are so similar , sometimes we can use the less virulent strain to make vaccines and treatments for the deadly ones .
but you can' t cure viral infections .
no , we can' t , but we do have therapies that reduce the symptoms of some strains .
this is russell' s strain , yeah ?
and this is gen o' s .
that' s the more deadly strain .
quantifying the difference between the two strains can take months .
well , i' m just doing a rough analysis to get sort of a simplified perspective of the differences
' cause i' m just curious .
the way you' ve simplified it ...
i can see a similarity to the protein signature from yet another strain .
we' ve got a treatment for that .
it' s a long shot , but they' re so close it' s possible to use the therapies to cure the spanish flu victims .
i got dr. weaver here who has something he thinks might be very important to us .
it occurred to me that these might be helpful in identifying the specific viral strain .
slides of the five known spanish flu strains .
they may help you in identifying where the virus originated .
thank you very much for bringing this down here .
we appreciate it .
oh , under the circumstances , it' s the least i could do .
and i know that during an investigation , the fbi has to do its due diligence , but , uh , i would like to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of my research associates .
they' re both very competent ,
trustworthy people .
of course .
especially martin grolsch .
i know he might seem a bit odd , but he' s a top bio technician ; ambitious and dedicated to his work .
right .
i simply can' t imagine that he would have anything to do with releasing a virulent pathogen .
well , we will definitely take that into consideration , but we got a lot to do here so i' m going to see you out .
okay , i' m sitting in a black hole .
i' m looking at you ; what do i see ?
everything ... and nothing .
but are we talking about a charged black hole in anti de sitter space ?
no , just a run of the yang mills black hole .
larry .
charles ... would you care to join our
string theory lunch club ?
sure .
i just wanted to thank you .
your advice on the problem i had ... really worked out .
okay .
well , the scientific method works every now and then , if you give it a chance .
it helped , uh , a lot of people .
i wish i could tell you more .
you know , when i first started out teaching , there were still many scientists who' d worked at los alamos , and there were things that they couldn' t talk about this was after 30 years so let' s just hope that your secret has a shorter half life .
and doesn' t kill as many people as the atomic bomb .
you serve the warrant on grolsch ?
no .
he wasn' t there .
we posted it and went in .
you said he referred to a girlfriend ?
yeah , he did .
he made , uh , what was it some joke about not seeing her much .
probably due to the fact she dumped him a month ago .
series of increasingly hostile e mail volleys ended with her pulling the plug .
enough to push him over the edge ?
i mean , is this all about getting the attention of a woman ?
no i think he' s a self involved jerk ;
i don' t see evidence he' s a sociopath .
and as far as his personal records go ,
grolsch is a keeper , not a shredder .
copies of his phone bills .
we' re reviewing numbers called .
so far , nothing .
all right ...
these go back , like , nine months .
here' s a hookup charge .
he moved here less than a year ago .
could be something .
mr. grolsch , when we spoke before , you neglected to mention that you came to california from maryland .
after you grabbed me , did you put my groceries in the refrigerator ?
i had some frozen items in there .
see , that concerns us because not one but two strains of the spanish flu have been released here .
one from gen o and one from russell labs in maryland .
strains from both labs ?
you' re sure ?
where were you employed back east ?
russell labs you know that already or else i wouldn' t be here .
you didn' t tell us that before .
well , you didn' t ask before .
look , russell and gen o are in stiff competition ; bio research is a cutthroat business .
dr. weaver was impressed with my credentials and called to recruit me .
you' re linked to this outbreak in two ways , do you understand that ?
and as far as we could tell , you' re the only person with access to both strains .
okay , no ...
look , this is nuts .
no , i am not the only person .
okay , russell and gen o are both competing for the same huge pharmaceutical contract .
so when i joined gen o ,
i gave my new company a boost by bringing along a sample of what the competition was cooking up .
you took russell labs ' virus with you , across the country , when you came to work for gen o ?
i followed the proper protocol .
there wasn' t any risk .
dr. weaver and jessica avery .
it' s not just me .
okay , all right .
let' s talk about pharmaceutical contracts .
what were the two companies in competition for ?
i think maybe it' s time that i had my lawyer present .
you transferred bio hazardous materials across several state lines !
i can' t begin to tell you the trouble that puts you in .
now , seeing how people are dying ,
i suggest you help us first , and then you talk to your attorney .
the competition is for a contract with the company developing the vaccine .
and what' s the name of that company ?
craigmac pharmaceuticals .
that' s a major manufacturer .
we' re talking about a hefty contract ...
hundreds of millions of dollars over several years .
so that' s why you stole the virus , to help gen o and make yourself rich ?
it sure as hell wasn' t to release it .
i don' t want to kill people .
right ; it' s just a harmless case of corporate espionage .
is that it ?
you think he was desperate enough to release both viruses just to prove gen o' s was more deadly ?
maybe ; but like he said , there' s also janice avery and dr. weaver .
somebody else might' ve gained access that nobody knows about .
well , we need to find everybody who could get to both viruses .
and i want to talk to craigmac about that contract he was so hot to win .
as soon as that data comes in , you guys get it to me , understand ?
all right , see you in a little .
hey .
hey .
hey , havercamp tells me they' re responding to treatment , which she says you helped identify .
good going .
i' m glad i could help .
you all right ?
hey , don , did , um ... did mom ... did she suffer ?
no .
no , not toward the end .
i mean , not with all the morphine she was getting .
she had one of those ... those ...
she liked that .
okay .
hey , i want to know how you got a top security clearance .
i did some consulting for the nsa .
the national security agency ?
yeah , a couple years ago , uh , bob tomkins called me .
wait a minute .
assistant director robert tomkins ?
bob .
yeah .
robert .
yeah .
charlie ...
do you understand , with that , i mean , you don' t even need a visitor' s pass to come to my office .
you have total access .
really ?
they never told me that .
i mean , i ...
i' m just trying to get head around the fact that my little brother consulted on an nsa issue that went high enough up for you to call the assistant director by his first name .
the nsa consults with a lot of mathematicians .
you know , you' ve never been really good at keeping secrets think about it .
charlie ...
don ... we' ve got something .
hey , so craigmac awarded the contract to russell labs two weeks before the virus was released .
there' s a formal announcement due next week .
but you said russell lab' s germ is less deadly than the one gen o developed .
i did , and it is .
right , but then the treatment therapy would be derived from the less potent virus .
when it comes to corporate decision making , other factors come into play .
such as ?
russell labs might not have the best pathogen , but they' ve got a ceo who' s got a good contact at the fda .
that' s important to a company like craigmac .
this blows the idea that grolsch was trying to win the contract .
no , no , no , no , no .
he did not know that contract was awarded .
they found something on the bus depot tapes that we have to take a look at .
weaver .
come on .
come on .
we got him entering a second bus .
this is a guy trusted to develop a deadly virus , and he' s releasing it .
there you go not a wild eyed crazy person .
weaver' s not at home , he' s not at the office .
told the assistant he' d be gone all afternoon .
well , let' s find him now .
if you reach his voice mail , try again .
or not .
hello ?
dr. weaver .
agent eppes .
yes .
good to hear from you .
hey , look , i had a few more questions .
i was wondering if i could come down there and see you .
actually i' m out of the office today .
oh , really , it' il just take a second .
how about we talk on the phone ?
um , i' m driving right now .
oh .
where are you ?
i' d be happy to arrange a time to see you tomorrow .
agent eppes , i' m sorry , i really don' t like to talk on the phone when i' m driving in city traffic .
good bye .
where is he ?
approaching hancock park .
all right , notify lapd and chp he' s in a residential district .
this is his car .
all right .
do not move .
do not move .
do not move .
i' ve got the bag .
step back off the curb , away from the church .
is all this truly necessary ?
you wanted to prove your virus was more powerful , so you tested it on innocent people ?
yes .
i had to , to save lives .
save lives ?
20 people are dead .
if the vaccines and treatments are made from the wrong pathogen , and the spanish flu reemerges , which i assure you it will , we will not be ready millions will die .
so you justify these deaths to save more lives later .
if you had been around deadly pathogens as long as i have , you would understand that i had no choice , agent .
they are unforgiving we have to take every possible measure to protect innocent people .
what do you got ?
candles .
they' re just candles .
those are for the victims .
i was about to light a candle for each one .
did you think i was planning to release the virus again ?
let' s go .
i have no reason to do that .
let' s go .
we' ve already established that our strain is the more deadly releasing it again would be insane .
so , how are you two guys doing ?
well , you seem so much more relaxed than the last couple of days .
yeah , i' d say , uh , we' re doing pretty okay now .
finished our project .
think i might get my first good night' s sleep in about a week .
i' m glad it' s over .
you know , i thought i' d let you know that i' m gonna be working down at the shelter next week .
i mean , if that' s okay with the two of you .
yeah , i think it' s okay now .
i think that' s a good idea .
i' il see you two later .
i' m gonna be going somewhere with art stanley .
uh oh .
what are you two up to ?
bowling .
after the fuss you made , i thought i' d give it a try .
i still can' t believe you never told me you consulted for the nsa .
it was nothing like this , you know ?
i hope not , charlie .
you know , i mean , a lot of stuff comes across my desk daily bureau briefings .
chances are , probably already knew about your assignment .
it wasn' t an assignment , really .
it was , um ... it was more of a consulting gig .
and it wasn' t really all that sensitive .
we have troops stationed all over the globe , right ?
all right , stop .
stop , stop .
let me ...
no , no , no , stop , stop .
charlie , look , don' t let me play you like that .
you made an agreement not to talk .
you' re right , you shouldn' t .
i' m sorry , forget it .
it' s over .
i won' t ask .
i know how your mind works .
i think your mind works pretty well .
all right ?
i wouldn' t have it any other way .
tell me what the assignment was .
wouldn' t you like to know ?
come on .
what was it ?
i really can' t tell you .
it' s , um , top secret .
