subtitles by midas and ghesus
terkel in trouble
hi children !
are you comfortable ?
my name is arne and i' m going to tell you a story about a boy i know called terkel
terkel is a healthy boy , except from when he is sick of course
but he' s a good kid and he' s got bones in the nose
now you might think : " bones in the nose ?
that hurts ? " but that' s just somthing you say about a person who is intelligent or about people who sneezes while they' re eating fish
anyways ...
terkel lived in a small town in a red house together with his mom beate and his dad leon
beate and leon were pretty fair parents they just had a tiny bit of a problem agreeing about stuff .. and that' s the way it is !
no
yes it is
no
yes !
no !
mom and dad , can' t you stop discussing all the time ?
terkel we' re not discussing , we' re quarreling , right ?
no ...
yes we are !
no !
yes we most certainly are ! ...
yeeeees ... !
terkel also had a little sister
hey terkel ...
her name was rita .
not now rita , i' m busy
weren' t we supposed to go to school together ?
yes ... we were not supposed to go together
terkel was in 6th grade at kastanjevangen school
his best friend is jason
hey what' s up terkel ... !
how' s it hanging , dude ?
are you " fresh " ?
yeah ...
i just haven' t made my arithmetic homework
ah nasty shit ... but on the other side ...
fuck it !
jason came from albertslund
that' s why he talked a bit differently
and that' s also why he always carried an iron pipe in his pocket
ah bummer !
there' s johanna
haha , she' s allready seen you jason
hey jason
what' s up johanna ?
how ... how' s it going ? " how' s it going ? " ? !
ermm ...
bye bye ...
but jason ...
goodbye johanna
she' s completely in to you yeah , i know
it' s just that she talks so weird that it makes me trip easy there
there were also 2 really mean boys in terkel and jason' s class
they were called sten and saki
they used most of their recess ' on bullying a chubby girl named dorit
cool sten
what' s up porky pig ... you fat today ?
again today !
i swear , chubby dorit is always fat , haha
friday morning' s program was music with the class ' favourite teacher arne nougatbranch
hehe , believe it or not , that' s me !
so you' il have to excuse me while i attend my job
hello kids !
it' s time for music class
err , are you ready ?
yeah ... !
good , now listen ... err silas ?
i studied my grandfather' s encyclopedia of music this weekend and there i saw the expression " funky
what does it mean ?
listen up kids ... music isn' t supposed to be read or analysed
music is supposed to be tasted and felt , to be listened and danced to .
there' s music in everything
for instance jason' s iron pipe
or in solveigh' s cellular phone that rings in class
well kids !
let' s get some instruments and fire it up
that' s the way jason that' s a good beat ... the guitar is mine !
2 , 3 , 4 ...
birte a bit more groovy please
we' re rolling .. !
the name is arne " " and i like music
i teach 6a in rhythmics
the whole class is pumping " " and everybody' s in
and when the beat is on " " i' il go fetch my bass
suddenly we' re all sent away " " and all the kids sing along
arne is way cool !
thanks children
arne is way cool !
i' m too coool !
casper remember to empty the saliva valve
when you look at me " " you' il know what to expect
the man with wide velvetpants " " and with beatles hair
the women want me " " and they can' t get enough
when i pass by them " " they all go crazy
arne he' s too cool !
way cool !
arne is way cool !
uhoho coool !
super cool
arne he' s too cool !
i' m too cool for myself
that' s music !
thanks a lot kids
have a nice ...
silas , thank you !
it swings
silas ... !
thank you !
you wont beat my record , will you ?
hang on for 2 seconds ...
fuck !
are you ... grrrr
hi there kids
what' s up ?
hello there
actually you' re sitting on a spider
am i ... ?
yeah , look !
where ?
right there it' s totally squashed
don' t worry .
it' s just pants
they can be washed .
tell me boys , what class are you in ?
6a ... in your face hmm i see
it' s because i' m a new substitute teacher here in the school
my name is gunnar and i' m supposed to teach 7b so ...
okay ...
what are your names boys ?
my name is terkel and i' m jason , dude
terkel and jason , greetings kids .
i have to go , take care
yeah , 100 % , dude
he was pretty fucked up
yeah , a bit weird but kind of nice , right ?
what' s up fuckface ?
i just have to pee .
fair enough .
dick ! "
shit ! "
smelly cunt ! "
hello ... anybody there ?
oh , no ...
hey , what' s up terkel
please don' t ...
have you pissed in your pants ?
haha , you' ve pissed in your pants haha , funny ...
come on sten ...
hey terkel listen , if this was an army gun we would' ve shot your balls off
in vietnam ...
look sten !
that' s chubby dorit
get her !
if you get her bag then i' il pull her hair deal !
fat dorrit , you' re so fucking nasty ...
it was the end of the schoolday and the final subject of the day was " danish
but instead of their ordinary teacher yvonne a stranger arrived
look jason , it' s that weird guy
ah gunnar , dude .
check that sweater , really faggot looking
hey kids !
please sit down quietly on your bottoms
i' m gunnar and err ... do you have any chalk ?
excuse me gunnar , i' m silas and i would like to volunteer to go get some chalk
well , thanks silas
as i said before , i' m gunnar and i ...
here is the chalk !
wow ordinary and coloured chalk
great , listen up
my name is gunnar bjerre and this is my african opossum liselotte
normally your teacher would be yvonne but unfortunately she had an accident
yvonne tripped all the way down the stairs and ... ... rolled on to the big and dangerous traffic filled road which you should never cross without an adult
out on the road , the cars just didn' t have time to stop before it was too late
kids , yvonne ... she didn' t make it
she' s not comming back ever again
as i said , i' m gunnar and i' m a newly appointed substitute on this school
before this job i was a teacher at a " rudolf steiner school " .
if you know what that is ?
it' s a ... yes silas ?
i know what it is
the children already knew about these " rudolf steiner schools " which in short terms are schools that believe toys should be boring to play with
preferrably a stupid wooden doll with no face
that' s something the kids have to imagine for themselves
i once had i grildfriend like this
she wasn' t made out of wood though ... unfortunately
anyways ... back to the class
yes , thank you silas for the explanation
well kids , we better get to know each other better
i' ve brought along a peasack which we can throw to each other while we state our names
i can start , i' m gunnar and err .. how about we just take the rest of the day off ?
cool !
won' t you be our big brother gunnar ?
what ?
you can be our big brother because you have such a nice necklace
totally cute rat opossum !
yeah , i knew that
gunnar can we put make up on you just like on a girl ?
no girls , you must be missing a few screws
see you tomorrow girls bye bye big brother
win a new wife lottery "
oh no !
terkel ... ?
what ?
can you walk me home , terkel ?
god dammit , you can walk home yourself !
it' s because i forgot my key
then use the spare key !
but i can' t remember where it is
in the shed under the flowerpots !
but terkel it' s just that ...
leave us be , ghees !
are we crashing your place terkel ?
no we can' t today ...
my parents are planning the wedding the whole house is filled with marzipan etc .
terkel' s parent were to be married the comming saturday
hey boys
hey gunnar
are you out buying sweets ?
yeah , we' ve bought sniffsticks
well , see you on monday , bye
yeah whatever ...
can' t we be at your place today ?
today ain' t really a good day ...
why ?
yeah , that' s why !
but jason we' re never at your place no ...
i haven' t even seen how you live listen , i just can' t cope with it today
i' m totally wasted crap !
why do you always that stick in your pocket ?
don' t shit me , you never know when an iron pipe can come in handy
i' m home ...
no
hello dad no !
err , have you had a good day ?
no ...
ready for the wedding tomorrow ? err ... no !
you' il probably get ready in time no
is mom home ?
no
no !
i' m out here in the kitchen , terkel
hello dear had a good day ?
yes , we' ve got a new teacher
miss yvonne is dead terkel please wipe this
sounds like you had great fun , eh ?
mom , can i go to the ramp after we' ve had dinner ?
no terkel , not tonight .
all of us have to get up early in the morning
what if i come home early ?
terkel , we' re having a big party tomorrow and it' s important that you get your sleep
if you don' t get 8 hours of sleep you could end up getting anthrax and shrink to the size of a matchbox err mom ...
that wouldn' t be the first time something like that happened
hey terkel , open the window , dude
jason what in the name of the lord are you doing here ?
what in the name of the lord are you doing ?
try speaking a language i can understand
it' s 2am so ?
don' t be a crybaby
wake up , we have a flick to watch !
terkel wasn' t really into horror movies but you can' t really say that to your best friend
wow man , got his arm chopped off ...
yeah , shut up ... and the head !
haha , eat shit and die !
i therefore ask you vera gungadin mogensen will you take beate happerkuk stenstrm to be your lawfully wedded wife ?
no !
here they come ...
congratulations !
come on rita , you have to throw rice at mom and dad
no that' s not nice
that' s the way it' s done rita that way they can get fertile
fertile ?
yes , so they can have kids and stuff but they have us terkel ?
yes , but you' d like a little brother , right ?
ouch honey !
don' t throw that hard
ouch rita !
not that kind of throw , you can end up deaf from those
so grandmother , i don' t see you eating anything ?
can' t chew it ?
a spin in the blender ?
you can also get a toast .
do you want a toast ?
with cheese and ham .
it' s hard getting old , eh ?
well they' ve asked me not to give any speeches ...
yeah ! ... particularly because of the situation at the last family reunion
but what the hell , it' s not everyday that your little niece gets married
terkel !
your mom has a formidable ass !
haha , just joking
you' il get over it ...
no .
take it easy , i' il buy you a whore later
sit your ass down leon !
i don' t want to punch you on your wedding day .
no
and then i think we should make a toast to the bride and groom ... or at least say , " yes sir !
cheers !
and you don' t get off without a song fireman , hit it !
now just listen to me everybody sit down
beate and leon today we party
because you' re going to be spliced tomorrow
actually it' s today but i wrote this shit last night
it' s lovely to be ...
what' s up terkel ?
just someone from my class , i' il be right back
i want to go with you no rita stay here
sten ?
saki ?
sten ... ?
saki ... ?
take it easy man damn you look frightened
it' s just us i knew that
wanna get shot ?
hehe , no
what' s up terkel ?
what' s happening ?
not really anything having a party ?
just my parents , who got married
what are you guys doing ?
we' re going to get battered .
show it to him , sten
it' s " extra dry " okay ...
he stole it from his dad no , he said that i could take it
yeah , sure he did , smartass
can we get anything to drink from the party ?
nah , don' t think so can' t you get a beer for us ?
no , that' s not a good idea
err , it won' t be a big one then
maybe i can get 1 ... or 2, 3 beers
i think there' s a whole crate of beers out in the back
... brawn and figs and roasted herrings in pickle
and bread and buuuutter ...
err , stewart what about toast ?
sit your ass down or i' il fuck you up !
at last i will lift my glass ...
... and say congratulations
and then i will sit down on my seat
and put a fillet of fish in my mouth
and liver pt and chicken and turkey " " and ham and roast pork
and ...
what the hell ? !
are you trying to steal the adults ' lemonade ?
you little bastard !
it was sten and saki who made me do it
what ? !
are you talking shit to your uncle ?
it' s true !
they' re outside , and they had guns and stuff
no uncle stewart don' t do it !
what the hell !
surprise filthy little swines who the hell is he ?
it' s my uncle
so , you' re trying to steal from old uncle stewart ?
what the fuck are you talking about ?
little terkel here has just told me how you wall eyed sons of bitches ... ... have made him steal beer from me that' s a lie !
what the fuck ?
so you' re calling me a liar ?
fuck , you can' t just hit him !
so you want some with the ring too ?
don' t be impudent sonny boy or i' il make you eat dirt
but he' s much smaller than you !
what are you going to do about it , crybaby ?
take that !
don' t stand on his head !
quick action
and stay out fuck faces !
what are you doing uncle stewart ?
who me ?
i' m the one who' il get all the trouble on monday
don' t take it so hard kid come , let' s go in and beat up your dad
no i don' t want to be your fucking boyfriend get it , you ugly sack of slime
ouch , damn that shit !
hey jason
hey terkel did you just hear that ? !
boyfriend ? !
if she said that she wanted to be my bitch or ho ...
she talks so fucked up that it gets on my nerves
why are you only turning up now ?
it' s just because ...
hey what' s wrong with sten and saki ?
what do you mean ?
fair enough , they just seem pretty pissed at you
they' re in the class talking about how big a jerk you are
i knew it ...
knew what ?
and then terkel told everything that happened saturday night
haha , get the fuck out of here .
awesome i would' ve liked to see that
funny haha .
i' m the one who will get all the trouble
do you think it' s that bad ?
i got i message from the gorilla club which i' m a member ... hey boys !
what' s up !
my mom has written in my contact book why i was late
yes ?
let' s see ...
terkel has got milk allergies so he was allowed to sleep late ... ... there' s no reason for the kid getting cirrhosis of the liver ... ... yours faithfully , beate
yes ... you' re allowed to sit down
damn informer pig !
damn army whore !
you are doomed terkel !!
well as i said before , i' ve received a message from the gorilla club
they wrote that the piebald salamander was seen 3 days ago ... ... just out in the degne moor .
so i have arranged a camping trip
easy now ... that' s it
we' re leaving wednesday morning so i need your mom or dad' s signature ... ... stating that it' s okay that you sleep out at the moor
excuse me gunnar ? !
yes ...
silas ?
what' s the difference between a piebald salamander and an ordinary salamander ?
fucking nasty rotten crap shit project !
sour herb and bad gift , man !
jason it could be fun .
yeah jumping around in some plague infested moor , trying to catch some shitty salamanders ? !
but we' re going to sleep in a tent , the 2 of us togehter , that' s going to be fun
it' s just that ... argh that crap pipe !
throw that damn pipe out jason .
are you crazy ?
don' t wanna discuss it
you never know when you need an iron pipe
think it' s gonna be great
you think so sissy boy ?
looking forward to catch salamanders ?
are you cruel toward animals ?
haha , cruel towards animals
what ? !
cruel towards animals ? !
yeah , you don' t have to repeat or are you a mimic ?
yeah , you don' t have to repeat ... or are you a mimic ... err
whimp !
animal tormentor !
mimic !
leave me alone !
i love g ____ r " then we said that you were a member ... ... of our club , right big brother ?
yeah , and then you have to write letters
yeah , because we' re pen pals
would you be my pen pal ?
and can we cut your hair ?
ghees , you' re completely nuts
gunnar , can i have a word with you ?
of course terkel let go of me girls ...
this way terkel ... it' s just sten and saki , they won' t stop teasing me are they teasing you ? !
yeah , they call me a sissy , animal tormentor and a mimic i think that sounds awful , terkel
actually i think that you should strike back but how ?
which of them is the boss ?
sten , i think ...
then i think you should confront sten one should always go after the boss , then the others will automatically get out of your way
hey dude , what about yourself ?
what about yourself ? " ...
what about yourself ? " !
then they' il see how wrong they' ve been
okay , thanks gunnar
look , here comes the animal tormentor
and what about yourself ?
huh ?
yeah sten , what about yourself ?
what the hell is he babbling about ?
yeah , what do you mean ?
i say , " what about yourself ? " !
what about yourself "
what about yourself ? !
you' re just a loser
you call me a cruelty , sissy and a mimic
you' re a goof and totaly disgusting " " come on !
are you a wuzz ?
you long sock ! " " ' cause your pants flutters when i' m beating you
a shoe right in the ass
i' il kick your mom in her cunt " " screaming everybody get the fuck out
you can step on the one ones lying on the ground " " and those who whisper are lying
unless they whisper that i' m cool !
my mouth will not be silent " " dickheads better watchout
if there' s more trouble with you " " i' il squeal on you
' cause what you say is what you are
it' s in the news " " that you' re a toffee
you' re it , punkass " " give me five !
fat fart " " and you can' t sing it back
' cause what you say is what you are
it' s in the news " " that you' re a toffee
you' re it , punkass " " give me five !
fat fart " " and you can' t sing it back
what about yourself ? !
yeah i got it " " your mother humps everything
and your daddy consists of 10 different men " " and my dad can kick everyone of their asses
and if you think you found a save spot " " you better run home to momma
you act like a mirror when i' m fucking with ya
but i' m hooked on slapping you with 10 mirrors " " with your ugly face on
i got you 1 ... 2 ... 3 ... times
you' re a dickhead motherfucker
and a square asshole
you' re the one who started this " " but i' m the one who finishes it
i' il throw around like the pussy you are
you picked the fight , but got screwed over " " but from this point on , you' il shut your fucking face
and if not ...
i' m going to motherfucking tell the grown ups " " biatch
sissy boy !
yeah , totally a sissy .. and a mimic
it probably won' t come as a surprise to you that adults don' t know what goes on in kids heads
and least of all how to avoid getting bullied
what' s up crybaby ? chickenshit ?
what the fuck is wrong with you ?
nothing .
i' m just tired .
terkel speaking .
terkel , you' re not at the ramp again , are you ?
but normally i' m allowed to ..
listen here .
it' s gonna rain any sec now and you know how wet tree spreads sars
we' ve allready talked about that ok , i' m coming home now .
it' s for your own sake .
we wouldn' t want your knees to calque
huh ?
did it hurt ?
hey sissyboy !
we' re going to kill you .
you little animal tormentor .
want a piece of my new gun ?
no please , i don' t want to die
we' il catch you .
you can' t hide .
we' il kill you .
welcome to the hotline for kids stewart speaking .
hey stewart , it' s terkel hi terkel .
i' m working right now
i know ...
you have to call later ...
i have to be ready to take care of the children' s problems
but i do have problems is that a fact .
that' s why i' m calling fair enough , go on sailor
i' m getting bullied at school ...
so , what' s the problem ?
they say i' m an animal tormentor , a mime ...
yeah , i have to say that' s not bloody original !
what about super analdripping creep ?
but .. ?
or eskimo drugwhore son of a bitch ?
hey , here' s a good one .
flabby gazelle cockhead
stewart .. ?
gross bitch of a nasty fucking leatherface
but stewart you have to help me !
ofcourse my son , that' s why i' m here
problems are here to be solved , you know
sometimes you just have to acknowledge that you can' t solve them yourself
and never be afraid to cry out for help
now i' m going to tell you an advice that my dad gave me
ask for help " " if you are in doubt
ask for help ' cause it' s near " " and it can save lives
one can' t manage all problems by oneself
you can count on stewart " " just ask for help
yesterday i met a boy who weeped " " he couldn' t find his way back home
and he was afraid of the dark
the kiddo said : dear stewart can you help me ?
i took out my knife and yelled booh !
and suddenly he found his way home
and then i remember viktor " " his dad really cruel
he beat the kid yellow and blue " " whenever he had the time
victor called me up one day " " and complained about his situation
unfortunately i was busy that day " " so now viktor is dead
ask for help if you need answers
you can call night and day
this captain is ready
push the 8 digits if you are feeling down
and if i' m out drinking you can leave a message !
can' t i just get some help ... ?
that' s right terkel
that' s what you have to say , if one day the shit hits the fan
take care and tell your dad that i' m popping by to hand out some beatdown one of these days
death to the animal tormentor
no !
please i don' t want to die !
what is going on here ?
have you seen this mess , leon ?
no
what is it you' re playing in here ?
a stone came through the window it didn' t just come through the window by itself .
maybe this will teach you not to play with fire another time
terkel kept some distance to sten and saki in the schoolyard
if they were capable of throwning bricks through a window
then who knew what they could be up to oh oh ... !
hey look , there he is , the tormentor hey mime !
a damn army whore
trying to hide , are you , huh ?
won' t you just please leave me be ?
now now there sissyboy , don' t cry you little animal tormentor
blinking your eyes , huh ?
afraid of your mom and dad ?
terkel was wondering what to do , when the class ' fat girl dorit came over
you know what terkel ?
don' t mind them .
they' re just jealous
dorit ?
terkel had never talked to dorit before
he had actually never really noticed her she was just a part of class
what is it ?
it' s just a letter , but you don' t have to read it now .
look !
chubby dorit and the sissy are lovers see , terkel has cried
then it' s good thing that he has his girlfriend chubby dorit
yeah , they are lovers and what if we are ? !
you' re just damn jealous fat porky
hey terkel , are you really in love with dorit ?
terkel felt like talking back and help dorit just as she had tried to help him
but instead terkel did what one would do with the back against the wall
he passed the ball ...
ermm , no i' m not in love with a fat fucking cow like her
that was all that was needed for sten and saki to forget all about terkel ... ... and jump all over the poor dorit
haha , fat cow .
chubby whalefish .
beached whale , john goodman
where are you going chubby dorit ?
stay here you fat cow
wow , that went pretty quick , huh ?
terkel was paralysed by horror
let' s hope no one got hit by the fat cow
cool said terkel it looked really awesome
hurray for terkel
imagine someone can bleed so much that' s obvious if you' re a fat cow , right terkel ?
terkel ?
wait a sec ...
tell me , what really happened up in the class ?
erhm , she jumped out of the window fair play , okay then ...
luckily no one was hit by that fat cow
the letter ? !
dear terkel ...
i love you
you' re the only good thing in my life
i get bullied everyday " " and i can barely take it
it' s because of you that i' m still alive " " forever yours , dorit
one more sausage , leon ?
no ...
yes you do
no .. !
that' s the way it is !
so terkel ...
what have you been doing in school today ?
today i got bullied so much that i chose to bully chubby dorit
finally she got so upset that she jumped out of the window from the 3rd floor
well , then you must' ve had your hands full .
mom , she actually died !
rita , if you want the toothfairy to come this year then you surely don' t want to chew so noisely
hi terkel .
stay out rita
don' t you want to play with my cut out dolls ?
i don' t " play " !
but you play with jason ?
we don' t play , we' re just together
don' t you want to be together with me and my dolls then ?
keep out !
psychopath on the loose "
dad , i need to talk to you
i have some problems in school and there' s no one who wants to help me
so won' t you please hear me out ?
noooo !
mom ... ?
what is it terkel ?
want to play ?
forever and ever ?
nooooo come over here terkel
where are you going ?
watch out that you don' t rust terkel
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to get ya
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to touch you
i' il shread what you think is safe
i' m the shadow behind the curtain " " i' m the branch on your window
i' m a sound from your closet " " i' m a voice inside your head
i' m the tormented souls " " the distorted cries
from those in the computer games that burned to death
as your mom and dad who only believe what they can see
they say i don' t exist .
what do they know ?
they are asleep when i haunt , when i give you my thrill
it' s not them i' m visiting , when i give you my scare
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to get ya
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to touch you
i' il shread what you think is safe " " paranoia so loud it makes you go insane
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to get ya
i' m comming , i' m comming " " i' m comming to touch you
i' il shread what you think is safe
you' re a deadman terkel
who had wrote it ?
was it sten and saki who had put salt in his erm ... bad conscience ?
it just had to be
terkel have you seen the spare key ?
what ?
it' s not in its usual place out in the shed
i haven' t seen it here , i' ve packed your suitcase
mom , are you throwing me out because the extra key has gone missing ? !
silly you , it' s wednesday
what ?
the salamandertrip ...
did you forget about that ?
mom , can i please stay home ?
nonsense , you' re going to sleep in tent with jason out in the dark and dangerous forrest .
it' s going to be fun
i don' t feel well .
that' s probably just some hepatitis
you just have to walk until it goes away
please let me stay at home ? !
then you have to ask your dad first
dad ... ?
no
sten we' re taking the back seat definately
good morning terkel good to see you
do you have a note from your parents ?
yes , here' s my contactbook
would you be so sweet as to deliver all your luggage to the busdriver over there ?
is this some kind of joke terkel ?
if so i don' t think it' s funny
you' re going to die ! " you' re going to die ?
yeah , i can read it perfectly well myself .
but i don' t think it' s funny
ready to go kids terkel are you coming ?
hey fuckface , come over here and sit your ass down before i make you
hey jason ...
hey terkel .
cool bag
yeah totally cool bag is it army ?
is it a bag from the army ?
no , it' s just an eastpack
totally cool yeah
what was it you called that dorit ?
fat cow ?
ah yes
fat cow , way cool terkel .. won' t you sit next to me and saki ?
ermm , okay cool
what the fuck ...
is anybody sitting here ?
actually someone is !
i can' t see anyone
well look closer then , you bum
bloody hell !
now i dropped my pipe you bring bad luck
calm down for a sec ?
you silly little mischiefs okay gunnar
i feel like playing a song for you guys if you would like to hear one ?
oh dear , you' re absolutely uncontrollable
hey gunnar , can' t you sing a song about why we have to do so much homework ?
listen up kids , you' re all being spoiled
there' s actually a lot of children in the world who are worse off than you .
here' s a story about a boy named quang
he' s 7 years old and lives in thailand
and his workday is long
he gets up early in the morning " " and goes to bed very late
' cause quang has a lot to do " " though he' s just a boy
every morning at 4 . 45am " " quang takes off
through hawthorns and thistles " " to a boat at the riverside
the water is dark and cold " " but the family ows money
so he dives for pearls " " but mostly without any luck
so what the hell makes you think that i want to listen to you grumble ?
that you don' t like your spinach and don' t get enough allowance
you have fast food and nintendo " " you have time to sillyness and play
there' s 1000 kids in the world wanting to swap places with you
quang he' s the oldest one
of a family of 10
he' s the one doing the cooking " " when the day is over
there are enough mouths to feed " " often it can be difficult
so quang has bought a tube of glue " " that they can sniff for desert
when quang has put the small ones to bed " " he is dead tired
but he has to go to the village again " " eventhough it' s night
' cause he has a date " " that he arranged yesterday
with his boyfriend heinrich schultze " " who is 45 years old
so how the hell can you be telling me that you life really sucks
would you please try and see it in a larger perspective
think about others than yourself " " learn from my song
remember that you have a good life " " if you don' t live like quang
remember that you have a good life " " if you don' t live like quang
gunnar , i just want to tell you that it' s a real shame about quang ...
i' m like , " what the fuck ?
if it was oneself , one wouldn' t think it very funny and then i' m like " hey stupid " , we have to do something
yeah , and you can
i have what you call a sponsorchild from vietnam whom i transfer money to
it costs dkr 140 per month
if you guys give me dkr 5 each you can all help me support the little philip jongongong
is he called philip jongongong ?
well terkel it' s a girl but philip is a boy' s name ?
yeah , but down there you can be named whatever you like
yes , kids listen up !
when you have raised your tents you can go and explore the forrest
you can also go down to the lake as long as you keep a safe distance to the water
and then we' re going to bed early
we have to go to bed at 10pm as we have to get up at 5am to study the salamanders
yes silas ?
what if one would like to go to bed at 9 . 30pm ?
shut your freaking ass silas !
terkel was in a better mood
actually he had forgotten all about the horrible messages
hi jason
what' s up wannabe ?
take it easy ...
what' s wrong with your head ? !
they have been on your back for 2 days
and then all of a sudden you' re eating from their palms .
it makes no bloody sense
they aren' t bullying me anymore .
they' re actually very nice
yeah , they' re totally cool because they aren' t bullying you , right ?
that' s why you' re a brownnose , or ? !
am not nonsense , fucking sellout !
come on ...
i guess you' re also sleeping in their tent ?
no ...
hey terkel !
don' t you want to sleep in tent with me and sten ?
what did i just say ?
ermm , allright
is that okay jason ?
that' s your fucking decision , loser
come on terkel !
do you really think that we can fit all 3 in that tent ?
yeah sure , it' s an army tent come on , you bought it at macy' s
so what ? !
they probably also , erhm , have macy' s in the army or ...
take it easy , i know that
fucking false little fat shitty fucking ...
yo johanna .
i just wanted to say that i' ve been really mean to you
i' m sorry ...
that' s life , nobody acts cool towards anyone anymore
but i hope it' s okay fuck off ! ' cause you' re too ugly for me and your mom' s a skank ho
what the fuck ... ?
jason had never experienced johanna that way
what a temper .
what use of language
imagine that a girl could talk that foul
so unbelievable foul
how can one be so blind " " i just didn' t get it
it' s just now that really i see you " " ' cause you' re a super hot fox " " i' ve found the meaning with my life
as a lightning from the sky , what the hell is going on
i haven' t been able to see it before today
fuck off ! " " ' cause you' re too ugly for me and your mom' s a skank ho
you told me without a smile
what do you want ?
i would do anything as long as you say that you would be my girlfriend
i love your style
damn girl you' re so crazy " " all that time i' ve wasted
before i understood that you' re so hot
and suddenly i' m standing here " " seeing how beautiful you are
i' il feel down if you' re not available
i can only hope that you' il be my girl
fuck off ! " " ' cause you' re too ugly for me and your mom' s a skank ho
you told me without a smile
what do you want ?
i would do anything as long as you say that you would be my girlfriend
i love your style
fuck off ! " " ' cause you' re too ugly for me and your mom' s a skank ho
you told me without a smile
what do you want ?
i would do anything as long as you say that you would be my girlfriend
i love your style
sten , what kind of sheet is that ?
it' s nothing !
it' s just that it looks like something my baby sister ...
well it' s not !
sten !
what' s up ?
it' s just him jason , he' s gone mental
what' s up with jason , saki ?
i passed his tent and saw him making out with johanna
i swear and then i went by and said " buhhhh " , i swear man it was just for giggles
then he freaked out and slapped me in the face
you' re saying jason hit you ?
do you think i' m lying , look i' m totally red on the cheek
he' s totally sick in his head i bet it has something to do with his sister
sister ?
yeah , his sister is dead
hold on , does jason have a sister ? !
yeah dorit
chubby dorit , the fat cow is his sister .
or were .
you didn' t know ?
dorit ?
yeah .
where did you guys hear this ?
i went to kindergarten with him
he just always pretended not to know her in school
it' s true terkel
terkel was speechless was dorit really jason' s sister ?
and without terkel knowing anything about it of course terkel had never been home at jason' s
it was as if jason always came up with an apology
as if he didn' t want terkel to come home and ... find out ... that he was dorit' s brother !
was it tied together that way ?
you really didn' t know , terkel ?
no i thought that you were best friends ?
sten can i borrow your ...
ahhh
what' s happening ?
what is it ?
i don' t know
take a look and see yeah , come on , it' s your sleeping bag
holy fucking shit that is gross is it a cat or something ?
where did it come from ?
it' s hlm !
who !
and then terkel told about all those creepy messages .. and then in my contactbook it said that he wanted to kill me you know , there isn' t a lot of people who know where that spare key lies
crazy shit it' s definately jason
i just don' t understand it , he' s my best friend
he' s of course angry at you because you made dorit jump out the window
because i made ... ?
you guys were there too
what if he' s also planning to kill us , sten ?
i haven' t recieved any threatening letters
me neither , and the dead cat was only in your sleeping bag
yeah , that' s true
terkel !
yes ? !
do you have some chewing gum ?
thanks can i also get one ?
did you hear that ?
what ?
probably just the wind night terkel , night terkel
yeah , goodnight
what are you doing terkel ?
what are you up to ?
i' ve got an sms
who the fuck would message you this late ?
it' s from jason .
what does it say ?
it says that he will come and kill me now seriously ? !
let me see
oh what the fuck !
you have to run over and tell it to gunnar
yeah , you have to do that .
aren' t you guys coming along ?
erhm don' t think it' s a good idea ... right now
we' il keep watch , terkel
hurry up
take care of the flashlight , it' s from the army
hey terkel !
terkel stop !
terkel i swear ...
gunnar , gunnar , gunnar !
terkel ?
what' s this about ?
you have to help me gunnar
it' s jason , he want' s to kill me
what ?
it' s true
nah he' s gone mental
you have tell it to me from the beginning not here , we have to go
go ?
where to ?
he' s just behind us
who' s after us ?
can' t we just go for a short walk ?
just a short ?
i bullied dorit so she jumped , but that was because i didn' t want to be bullied by sten and saki and then dorit was jason' s sister but i didn' t know anything about that
what' s up fuckfaces ?
you can' t sleep either ?
jason !
don' t kill us !
what the fuck are are you talking about ?
have you been eating mushrooms with terkel ?
mushrooms ?
did you kill terkel ?
get the fuck out of here , what the fuck are you talking about ?
but you' ve sent him an sms saying that you' re coming to kill him
say what ? !
it was your name on the display
but ... fuck i' ve lent my phone to ...
god damn !
hey jason , where' re you going ?
hey sten , why is your sleeping bag wet ? ... in the meantime i had recieved some scary messages , and there' s the dead cat and then saki said that jason hit him .
and he then sent an sms , jason that is , that he wanted to kill me , terkel that is and now look at the display it says jason
i' m coming to kill you
woah terkel , that was quite a swallow
yeah .
know what ?
i' il give him a call
i' m going to call him on this mobile then i' il tell him that i' ve told you
and then he can' t do anything terkel hang on just a moment
no it has to be done now !
terkel wait
it' s ringing ...
terkel come to me .
stay away
terkel you' re confused .
come to me .
if i' m confused then how come you' ve got a knife ?
we' re just going to have some fun i don' t think it' s funny
nah , but do you think the poor little spider thought it funny when you sat down upon it ...
with your pretty jeans , eh ?
what ? !
that' s what this is all about ?
you thought you would go unpunished ... from slaying a tiny animal ?
you' ve planned this right from the start ?
correctomundo
right from when you committed your crime , i' ve done everything in my power to get revenge
unfortunately i had to push your teacher down the stairs and drive over her a few times ... ... before i could become your teacher .
but that' s life sometimes .
did you kill yvonne ?
yes !
your insane !
yes , but luckily i' m not an animal tormentor
you can' t just kill me because of a spider no i won' t just kill you
i will cut you out in 8 equally large pieces and burry the pieces all over the forrest so it can be absorbed by the earth and in that way pay your debt to nature by manuring the earth
you' re not going anywhere terkel !
come on ...
mom ... ?
no !
oh , hey dad no
dad you have to help me no
i' m out in the forrest no
our new teacher is after me no
he has a knife no
but he wants to kill me no !
dad give me mom no
dad i' m serious no
dad please !
no
give me the phone leon no
is that you terkel ?
no ..
i mean yes !
why are you calling this late ?
where are you ?
i' m out in the forrest
in the forrest ?
then don' t go further out than to your belly button , ok ?
we don' t want you to loose your feet mom i' m scared !
lucky you , then you' re granted one wish .
but you can' t say it aloud , otherwise your teeth' il fall out
bye now .
but mom !
bye bye
where are you terkel ? !
you can' t hide i' il get you
animal tormentor !
uncle stewart !
what the devil .. are you allowed out this late ?
we' re camping with the class ...
yes yes , that' s fine .
i' m camping down at the pond due south the problem is ...
then i ran out of vernerbranka .
one can' t fish after eels without vernerbranka
you have to help me stewart !
that' s why i' m here sailor
can i ride with you into town ?
sorry , the milk box is in the way
can' t you just take the milk box off ?
are you utterly and completely mad ? !
then i can' t transport my vernerbranka
can' t you drag the moped ' cause then we could go together ...
nah , then the shop will close , chief but my teacher wants to kill me
yeah , you have to remember to do your homework bye now , make sure there' s wind in the sails
i cought an eel today but it needed a drop of vernerbranka ...
mom ?
do you miss your mom , huh ?
you fucked up little psycho
i got you now you little bastard
not only do you kill small animals like a barbarian you also pollute the forrest with your phone
' cause you don' t care about everybody else it' s you it' s all about , right terkel ?
the whole world is your personal playground but now it' s over terkel !
are you done you fucking asswipe ? !
jason !
i told you terkel , one never knows when an iron pipe might come in handy
you biffed him that' il fucking teach him
you saved my life , jason hell yeah , you' re buying the beer in the airport
what ?
that' s just something my dad always say
look , you sat on an opossum
no worries , it' s just jeans .
i can wash them .
and i who thought that ...
jason what about your sister ?
what about her ?
well , i made her jump out of the window ?
fair enough , then i' m buying the beers in the airport .
what a crack .
let' s get out of this crappy wood .
jason !
here , catch this !
grab it terkel !
help me terkel !
take the pipe god dammit .
take the iron pipe , idiot !
terkel , now !
terkel , take the pipe terkel but ...
little bastard ...
freeze !
check that handle .
he looks like a fucking popsticle icecream
don' t you want your pipe back ?
nah , it ain' t that important .
sorry that i didn' t kept my part of the agreement
i' il survive .
now we' re together again .
just the 2 of us
erhm .
actually we' re 3 now 3 ?
you know ...
johanna i guess that' s fine by me
did you see the look on their faces ?
the morale of the story is of course that real friends should err .. have 20 minutes in the oven at 250 degrees celcius that' s a bunch a nonsense
yes i' ve got it , if you bully someone then you' il have to adjust to idea that you might get killed
nonsense again
erm .. if you have some friends then you' il have to watch out that they do not get sick
no , that not fucking it either .
don' t go , i have on my tip of my tongue
you reep how you sail in a pond ...
wait err , i' il call you bye bye
action !
i' m home yes .. or no no no i' m sorry
cut !
action !
i' m home yes .. no dammit
sorry i can do it now
action !
i' m home
err , yes ?
dammit not again !
i just have to check the manuscript
no )
okay , i' ve got it now
action !
i' m home
maybe for fucks sake !
if he can' t learn a fucking word then kick him out !
leon you have to pull yourself together for terkel' s sake
sorry arne think you' re ready leon ?
no that' s good
no no ...
think you' re ready leon ?
yes aaargh !
and cut .
excellent work everybody super realistic
fantastic
we need a volunteer to dry up all the theater blood and remove the doll ?
then we' il take one more shot .
the doll is ready arne .
err the doll ? !
but who is that then ?
oh shit !
ah no worries , it was just a fat cow
later on i starred in the film " national lampoon' s boring vacation " .
my first really political engagement
it was showed really minimalistic on ko413 .
i don' t hope that this will be a commercial success ... ... that will rob me my political dignity , and ruin my career in the long term
yeah , fuck that .
that would be the most psycopathic insane fucked up trip .
a totally plague infested anus .
you can' t just hit him ? !
don' t be impudent sailor or you' il be squashed
you' re insane ?
that' s it !
cut !
take that you shitty brat !
cut !
stewart !
let go of them
what the fuck , do you wanna dance ballet you little fag
any security on the set ? !
hey stop !
cut !
listen up .
what' s up terkel ?
i can' t concentrate when somebody is always making noise
who made the noise ?
i' m sorry that was me .
my leg felt asleep so i had to move the camera how about i just go home ?
get me a mineral water .
yeah , mineral water for terkel .
here you go terkel
no rita not that plug
now listen terkel , you' re our star .
you are the movie .
what the hell , this is with lemon .
how many times have i said that i hate lemon
i don' t wanna do this anymore .
it' s over !
no !
hurray there it was
okay now it' s rolling
this movie is based on the radio program ' arne tells terkel in trouble ' by anders matthesen
subtitles by midas and ghesus .
greets fly out to the ppl at fileheaven .
and pretty much everyone else ...
