good night sweat heart good night mum sleep tight kid
simulation terminated
alright mr. byrl , is it ? my friends call me flame can you tell me what you did wrong ?
i fell down no no before that can anyone tell me mr. byrl' s big mistake ? anyone
let' s take a look at the tape ?
see the door you let it wide open
leaving the door open is a big mistake because ... it could let in a draft ... it could let in a child there' s nothing more toxic and deadly than a human child a single touch could kill you
let the door open and a child could walk into the factory right into the monster world
i won' t go in the kid' s room you can' t make me you' il go in there cos we need this
our city' s counting on you to collect those children' s screams without scream we have no power it' s dangerous work and that' s why i need you to be at your best
i need scarers work confident tenacious , tough , intimidating
i need scarers like ...
james p salomon good morning it' s 6 an in the monster city the temperature' s balmy , 65 degrees which is good news for you reptiles
looks like it' s gonna be a perfect day just lie in bed work out the slam that' s hanging in the bad wake up
i don' t believe i ordered the wake up call mikey no pain no gain you call yourself a monster scary feet scary feet
you ready it' s over here don' t let the kid touch it
scary monsters don' t have plug
i don' t believe ...
i' m not even breaking a sweat the future is bright the monster incorporated we power your car we warm your home we light your city hey monster cooperated
look betty carefully matching child to their ideal monster to produce superior scream to find dependable energy every time you turn something on monster' s incorporated is there we know the challenge human kids are hard to scare we' re prepared for the future
finally research a new energy technique here i come we' re working for a better tomorrow
where am i monsters incorporated we scare cos we care
i can' t believe on mike
i was on tv did you see me ?
i know wasn' t i great ? did the whole family see it ? what can i say ?
the camera loves me
i' m telling you' re going to see this face a lot more what ?
the monster most wanted ?
ok hop in it where' re you going ?
i' m walking
baby i' il call you you know why i want that car for the drive of it for the hung hung ... give me a break you need some exercise
look at you you have your own climate good morning how' re you doing ?
are you somebody close to the scare records ?
i' m trying to make sure enough screams to go around
ah great
i told you call me sola
i don' t think so
i just want to wish you good luck you' re making a loser focus see you later
sorry shut up
would you like a voice mail ?
happy birthday
are we going anywhere special tonight ?
i just a sense of a little place called
harry housens but it' s impossible to get a reservation there not for a googly bear
i' il see .
not a minute later think romantic thoughts
you know pal she is the one
i' m happy for you how can we hook up a reservation no problem put it under the name googly bear good idea ... you know that wasn' t funny
what do you know it scares a little kid and a little monster
i wasn' t scared
i ... allergies
i' m gonna be doing some serious scaring today putting up big numbers that' s great that' s even making it more humiliating when we break the record first you hear that ? it' s the winds of change ?
you hear that ? it' s the winds of change ? what a creep one of these days i' m gonna really ...
let you teach that guy a lesson
who' il we be scaring today you didn' t file your paper work last night ? that dumb paper work wouldn' t it be easier just to ... blow away ?
don' t let it happen again
i' il try to be less careless
i' m always watching you
ok people eastern seaboard coming up on line scarers coming out
they' re awesome
let the best monster win
i planned to we' re running 7 , 6 , 5 , 4 , 3 , ...
i' m feeling good today
you' re still behind just get me another door oh yeah door
jerry what' s the damage so far ? we actually make our quota today
what happened ? she got this close to me
i can not die
he got a dead door over here
we' ve lost 58 doors this week sir kids these days they just don' t get scared like they used to
attention we have a new scare leader randall
slumber party
that was an impressive display
i was just doing my job cos i did learn from the best if i don' t see a new door in my station in 5 seconds
i' il personally put you through that shredder nice job your number is pretty swift
i haven' t even noticed
i love working with that big guy
george and i are like brothers thanks guys
i was a gross one
take a break
we have to shut down for a half hour and reset the system an entire scare forum
what a day we just had a rough time sir we know you' re gonna get us through it it' s up to the board of directors this company' s been my family for 3 generations
i' il do anything to keep it going
i could use your help with something anything sir we hired some new scary recruits frankly they' re ... inexperienced and they stink
i thought you might come by tomorrow show them what it takes to be on top
i' il start the waternoose jumping
that' s my boy
i haven' t seen anything today you' re on my roll
i' m taking her to the monster truck what' re you gonna do ? home work out some more you know this is more than scaring can i borrow your oilmen ? smelly garbage old dumpster how about wet dog ? sneak it up sometimes i think i should just marry myself one of the romances ahead of me it' s me and celia
i gotta tell you that face just makes my heart go ...
as a matter of fact ... and i seriously found your paper work correct for once your stunt silence is very reassuring
what am i gonna tell ... wanna get going ? do i ever it' s just that ...
i don' t understand
i just forgot some paper work i was supposed to file
mike reminded me thanks buddy
i mean i was ok let' s go then
man i have no idea
hello anyone there' s a door here
anybody' s scaring in here ?
i' ve had a lot of birthdays this is the best birthday ever what' re you looking at ?
i was thinking the first time i laid eyes on you how pretty you looked stop it your hair is shorter
i' m thinking about getting it cut no i like it this length
i like everything about you just the other day someone asked me who was the most beautiful monster you know what said ? what did you say ?
i said ...
sulli that' s not what i was gonna say you' re making sense what a coincidence running into you
i' m just gonna order something to go what' s good here ? get out of here you' re ruining our day back in there for your paper work there was a door what ?
randall was in it wait a minute that cheater he is trying to boost his numbers something else what ?
they don' t have anything i like here take care celia what' s going on ? you have to understand
i have to ... on three .
1 , ...
there' s a kid here a human kid
come on
let get out of here
stop pushing get your hands off my ...
i don' t think that' d have gone any worse
there has been a child security breach for the first in monsters history
i was trying to run and they tried to shoot me like a dog
i saw the whole thing it' s my professional opinion it' s time to ...
it' s coming
don' t touch those you little it doesn' t come near us it' s gonna be ok
you like this ? catch that' s it no one touches little mike give her the bear
sulli make it stop nice bear
please stop crying right now good keep it up you' re doing great
what was that ?
i have no idea but it' d be really great if it didn' t do it again
what can i do ?
i' m being so stupid it' d destroy the company what about us that thing is a killing machine
i better wait till it falls asleep and then whap !
i think i have a plan here we dig a tunnel under the city and release it into the wide that' s it
i' ve run out of ideas closed
i think she' s getting tired why don' t you find someplace for her to sleep while i think of a plan you sleepy is that what you want ?
that' s my bed you' re gonna get your germs all over
that' s the closet we' re going to sleep that looks like randall
randall' s a monster you think he' s coming in the closet and scare you how am i gonna explain this ? it' s empty see no monster in here
on no there is
i' m gonna scare you
i' m off duty
i' il sit in here till you fall asleep good now go to sleep
you go to sleep
it might sound crazy but i don' t think that kid' s dangerous
i always wanted a pet to kill me what if we just put her back in the door ? think about it
like it' s never happened everything goes back to normal is that a joke tell me you' re joking giving us a circumstance i' ve been extremely up to now it' s a horrible idea what are we gonna do ?
then we just walk right back to the factory right ?
i' m not gonna fool anyone think about a few things they all got one thing in common don' t worry we can do this everything is going to be ok
don' t panic
that' s the number one concern not now hello little one where do you come from ?
isn' t this one yours ? that' s my cousin sister' s daughter
james why don' t you stop by for the simulation today and give us scares you talked about that day yes i' m coming see you this afternoon
the scare demonstration why am i the last to know ?
hold it stop
come on it' s clear all we have to do is get rid of that thing this is the man' s room that' s the weirdest thing you have ever said it' s fine it loves it here it' s dancing with joy
i' il be right back with the door key what a cute little dance you got
are you done in there ?
sorry
ok you' re finished now right ?
where' d she go ? did she disappear ? did she turn invisible ?
i just have no idea got you
you' re good
you' re looking fabulous today is that a new hair cut ? tell me that' s gotta be a new haircut a new make up you have something that makes you look like
listen i need a favor
i really need the key to the door he was using isn' t that nice ? guess he didn' t turn in his paper last night piss off this is now close ready or not here i come
i' m getting warming any second now what are you doing ?
i am looking for the kid you lost it ? no she was just ... here she is what' s the matter ?
what' re we gonna do about the child
the front page the child the one you ... don' t you think i am aware of this situation
i was up all night to find it
i did a calculation the child may have escaped
i just wanna make sure we' re acting
like nothing' s happened you just get the machine up and running
i' il take care of the kid if i find them they are dead why are you still here come on go move
this is so very bad they were talking about a machine we don' t panic
did you lose weight ? you have the car key right ? of course i got her car key and now i have the car key
try to take care of yourself
it' s not her door what are you talking about ? of course it' s her door no her door was white it had flowers on it it must have been dark cos it' s its door you hear that sounds like un in there send me a post card kid
bon voyage see the snack go get the snack this is boo' s door ? what' s boo ? that' s what i decided to call her you' re not supposed to call it cos once you name it you' re starting to get attached to it now put that thing back where it came from
we' re rehearsing a play called now put that thing back where it came from or so help me it' s a musical
we' re still working on it it' s a working progress now say goodbye to it where' d it go ? where is she ?
i don' t believe it she' s away from you again wait a minute the sun is coming up it' s perfect she is gone where are you going we' re so close to breaking the record it' s their problem not ours what are you doing ? they were rehearsing a play
so what do you think of that kid getting out ? yeah crazy you haven' t seen anything have you ? no way but it was an inside job
i' d put my money on wax berg
last night was the worse night in my entire life
i thought you cared about me
i thought you liked sushi you think it' s about sushi
where is the kid ? what kid ? you were in the factory don' t put this on me it wouldn' t have got worse if you hadn' t been cheating last night cheating alright
i think we can make this all go away what happens if the whisper blows in 5 minutes
i get a time out everyone goes to lunch which means the scare floor will be ... painted ? empty it' il be empty you idiot you see that clock your big head is pointing up your hand is pointing up the kid' s door will be in my station when the big hand pointing down the door will be gone you have till then to put the kid back get the picture
hey you he is the one the one i saw on the commercial can i get an autograph sure no problem
i see ... from your scary friend ...
hello there what' s your name ?
you guys seen sulli anywhere ?
he was asking as if he was in trouble
1 9 !
we have a 1 9 !
oh , dear !
sulli !
sulli !
sulli ? !
great news , pal .
i' ve got us a way out of this mess .
we' ve got to hurry .
where is it ?
that' s a cube of garbage .
i can still hear her little voice .
i can hear it too .
how many kids that you' ve got in there ?
kitty .
boo !
oh , you are alright .
i was so worried .
don' t you ever run away from me again , young lady .
i' m so glad that you are safe .
oh , my .
what an affectionate father .
actually , she is my cousin' s sister , uh ...
okay , sulli , that' s enough .
let' s go .
sure .
step aside , kid .
will you stop making boo laughs ?
i didn' t .
come on .
i still don' t understand .
you' ve got boo' s door ?
i' il explain later .
run .
let' s move .
come on please be there there it is just like randall said
randall wait a minute 1 34 , get the kid back open the door it' s ok boo come on it' s to move what are you thinking ? we can' t trust randall .
he is after boo who cares let' s go this is a little time off no i don' t like this
look sulli .
you wanted her door and there it is
let ' s move no mike you want me to put everything on the up and up fine
mike where are you ? you in there
boo way to go
it' s ok
that' s good news just get over here and help me
this kid needs to take off a few pounds
where is it you little one eyed crack first of all it' s creek if you' re gonna threaten me do it properly second of all your kidnapping me is no way to change you to the top you still think this is about the stupid scare record well i did right until you chuckled like that now i' m thinking i should just get out of here
i' m about to revolutionize the scaring industry when i do even the silly james p sullivan is gonna be working for me somebody' s certainly been a busy bee first we don' t know where the kid is and you' re gonna tell me
i don' t know anything sure ?
i know what is that ?
hey that thing' s moving that thing' s moving towards me come on randall say hello to the scream extractor where are you going ? we' il talk we can talk about this
what is that thing ? wait come on
what did you do wrong this time ?
i don' t know i calculated the drive ... go check the machine there must be something wrong with the vault
fungus you like cars cos i got a really nice car you let me go i' il give you ... a ride in the car please fungus
i' m sorry
randall said i' m not allowed to ruin the evil plot
what happened ?
where is he ?
just crazy he' s gonna kill us we gotta get out of here now goodbye monster city goodbye waternoose what are you doing ? follow me i have an idea
what was that ? you were trying to scare the kid not allow him to sleep
i was going for a sneak ninja approach how many times do i have to tell you it' s all about presence how you enter the room
mr. waternoose
james perfect timing no no no sir you don' t understand sir you have to listen to me attention everyone you' re about to see the best in the business
james set the stimulation
give us a big row roar
mr. waternoose there is no time for this come on what are you waiting for roar but but sir roar
well done
boo alight gentlemen i hope you learned a new scaring today
it' s me .
you ?
a child ? !
i know it sounds crazy but trust me .
no , no , no .
it' s okay .
i was just ...
no , no , no .
don' t be scared .
it wasn' t real .
i was just ...
blue .
he wants to test it out on that sweet little girl .
he' s trying to kill us .
this whole thing is randall' s fault .
randall ? !
and we can take to a secret land which is right here in this factory .
how could this happened ?
how could this happened ?
does anyone else know about this ?
no , sir .
good .
this company can' t afford anymore bad publicity .
now , before we go anything else , let' s take care of the child .
i' ve never thought that things will come to this .
not in my factory .
i' m sorry that you boys got mixed up in this .
especially you , james .
but , now we can set everything straight again ... for the good of the company .
sir , that' s not the door .
what ?
i know .
i know .
it' s yours .
no !
boo !
it' s too late !
we are banished , genius !
we are in the human world !
what a great idea going to your pal waternoose .
too bad he' s in the whole thing .
all you have to do was to listen to me ... just once !
but you didn' t , didn' t you ?
welcome to the himalayas !
how vulnerable .
can you believe that , do i look like vulnerable to you ?
why can' t they call me the adorable snowman , or the agreeable snowman , for crying out loud ?
i' m a nice guy .
snow cone ?
don' t worry .
it' s lemon .
how about you big fellow ?
snow cone ?
did you see the way that she looked at me ?
poor guy .
i understand .
it ain' t easy being banished .
take my buddy big foot .
when he was banished ... he fasted into an enormous diarrhea out of poison lvy .
all out of his head like a tear .
there won' t be so hard for you guys .
you know , i mean how lucky can you get ?
banished with your best friend .
he' s not my friend .
i just assumed that you are buddies .
you know , when i saw you guys out there in the snow hugging and all that ...
look at that big jerk ruining my life and for what ?
a stupid kid .
because of you , i' m now stuck in this frozen waste land .
waste land ?
i think you mean wonderland .
i mean how about all this fabulous snow .
and wait till you see the local villagers .
cutest thing in the world .
i haven' t even mentioned all the fury yak' s smell .
what did you say ?
the yak' s smell .
milking a yak ain' t exactly a picnic .
you know once you pick the hairs out it' s very nutritious .
no , no .
something about a village .
where ?
are there kids in it ?
kids ?
sure .
soft kids .
sissy kids .
kids who climb on rocks .
where it is ?
it' s at the bottom of the mountain .
around a 3 days hike .
3 days ?
we need to get there now !
you want to go to the village ?
okay , rule number one out here .
always ...
no .
never go out in a blizzard .
we need to get to boo .
boo ?
what about us ?
ever since that kid came in , you have ignored everything i said .
and now look where we are ?
how we were about to break the record , silly .
we would have it made !
none of it matters now .
none of it matters ?
wait a second ?
none of it matters ? !
okay .
i have said no .
good .
great .
so now the truth comes out , doesn' t it ?
would you look at that , we are out of snow cone ?
let me just go outside and make some more .
so , what about everything that we ever work for ?
does that matter ?
what about celia ?
i am never ... never going to see her again .
doesn' t that matter ?
what about me ?
i' m your pal .
i' m your best friend .
don' t i matter ?
i' m sorry , mike .
i' m sorry that we stuck out here .
i didn' t mean for this to happen .
but boo is in trouble .
i think that maybe a way to save her .
but we can just get down ...
we ?
we ? !
no .
there' s no we this time , pal .
lf you want to go out there and freeze to death , you be my guest .
because you are on your own .
hey !
i have got more snow cones .
come on now , george .
i know that you can do this .
i' ve picked out an easy door for you .
in the pole .
nice , quiet in the pole .
you know , you are right .
take this .
go get them , georgie .
get away .
look out .
coming through .
sorry , george .
hey !
you can' t just ... 3 knots ...
out of my way !
hey !
finally .
i never should have trusted you with this .
because of you , i have to banish my top scarer .
with this machine , we won' t need scarer .
besides , sullivan has got what he deserves .
sullivan was twice scarier than you ever be .
sullivan !
sorry , boo .
stop him .
let' s get you home .
finish him off !
you don' t know how long i have wanted to do that , sullivan .
mike ?
look , it' s not that i don' t care about the kid .
mike , you don' t understand .
yes , i do .
i was just mad , that' s all .
i needed some time to think .
but you shouldn' t have left me out there .
i' m being attacked .
no , i' m not attacking you .
i' m trying to be honest .
just hear me out .
look , you and i are a team .
that' s more important than our friendship .
i know , kid .
he' s too sensitive .
come on , pal .
lf you start crying , i start crying .
i' il never get through this .
i' m sorry that i wasn' t there .
but i am now .
hey , sulli .
i' m burying my soul here , the least you can do is pay attention .
look at that .
it' s randall , isn' t ...
come on .
get up !
there can' t be any witnesses .
there won' t be .
i' m glad that you come back , mike .
somebody' s got to take care of you , you big hairy ball .
i really can' t talk .
lf you are not going to tell what' s going on right now .
we are through , you hear me , through !
okay , here' s the truth .
do you know that the kid that they are looking for ?
sulli let her in .
we tried to send her back .
but waternoose had the secret thought .
now randall is right behind us .
and he' s trying to kill us .
you expect me to believe that pack of lies .
i love you !
look out !
idiots !
look out !
coming through here !
coming through here !
make way !
move it !
hurry up !
hurry up !
there they are !
attention employees .
randall has just broken the all time scare record .
no , i didn' t .
get out of my way .
go get them .
there it is .
get off my tail !
let me go !
sulli , what are you doing ?
grab on , mike .
sulli , what are we doing ?
we' ve got to find boo' s door and find a station .
what a plan .
simple and insane !
oh , boy !
hang on !
don' t look down !
i' m going to be sick .
i' m going to be sick .
oh , no !
no .
boo' s door .
how are we supposed to get to it now ?
it' s a dead end , sulli .
there it is .
make her laugh !
what ?
sulli ...
just do it .
get it open !
give that kid !
why couldn' t we get banished here ?
come on .
come on .
we' ve got to find another door .
look .
boo' s door .
there he is .
hurry .
hurry up !
give me your hand .
come on , slide .
just slide .
jump !
i' m right behind you !
come on !
hurry up !
keep moving !
get inside .
that was rid .
mike ?
sorry , buddy .
i hope that hurt , lizard boy !
great job , buddy .
we' ve lost him .
boo ?
no !
nice working with you !
get it up there .
i try to open the door .
get in here !
boo !
there they are !
sulli , what are you doing ?
sulli !
look like we' ve got the express , pal .
can you see them ?
straight ahead .
kitty !
boo !
look at everybody' s favorite scarer now .
you stupid pathetic waste !
you' ve been number one for too long , sullivan .
now , your time is up !
and don' t worry .
i' il take good care of the kid .
no !
she' s not scare to you anymore .
looks like you are out of the job .
alright .
come on here .
let' s see the old stuff here .
come on , baby .
he is out of here !
mama , the alligator' s got in the house .
alligator ?
give me that shovel .
get him out of here .
care to the honor ?
with pleasure .
that' s right , boo .
you get it .
you' ve beat him .
come on .
okay , boo .
it' s time to go home .
take care of yourself and be a good girl , okay ?
oh , no !
the power' s out .
make her laugh again .
alright , i' ve got a move here .
it will bring down the house .
oh , sorry .
she didn' t see that .
what ?
why did you forget to check the stupid hoot was up , you big dope !
uncle mike , try not to yell at her .
you know , you still need her to laugh .
right .
hey , boo , just kidding .
look !
funny , right ?
these are the jokes , kid .
what' s happening ?
hold on !
when the door reaches the station , cut the power .
we' il have the child and the criminals responsible for this whole mess .
great .
what are we going to do ?
this is the cda .
come out slowly and with the child at plain sight .
okay .
okay .
hey , guys .
here we are .
here' s the kid .
i' il cooperate .
but before you take us away .
i have one thing to say .
catch !
stop him !
come on .
don' t let them get away .
wait .
wait .
come back here .
he has the child .
sullivan !
sullivan .
give me the child !
give her to me !
open this door .
open this door !
don' t do it !
don' t .
don' t go in that room !
i think we' ve stopped him , boo .
you are safe now .
you be a good girl , okay ?
this has gone far enough , james .
she' s home now .
just leave her alone .
i can' t do that !
she' s seen too much .
you both have .
it doesn' t have to be this way .
i have no choice .
time has changed .
scaring is not enough anymore .
but kidnapping children ?
i will kidnap a thousand children before i leave this company die .
and i' il silent anyone who gets in my way .
no !
good night , mum .
what ?
good night , mum .
what ?
stimulation is terminated .
stimulation is terminated .
well , i don' t know about the rest of you guys , but i' ve spotted several big mistakes .
but ...
but ...
how did ...
you know what ?
let' s watch my favorite part again , shall we ?
i' il kidnap a thousand children before i let this company die .
i' il kidnap a thousand children before i let this company die .
i' il kidnap a thousand children before i let this company die .
what are you doing ?
take your hands off me .
you can' t arrest me .
i hope you are happy .
you have destroyed this company .
monster incorporated is dead .
where will everyone get their scream now ?
the energy crisis will only get worst ... because of you !
stay where you are .
number 1 wants to talk to you .
attention !
hello , boys .
two and half years of the undercover work , we' ve almost wasted .
you' ve intercepted that child , mr. sullivan .
of course , without your help ,
i never would haven known that this went on all the way up to waternoose .
now , about the girl .
i just want to send her home .
very good .
bring me a door shredder .
what ?
you mean i can' t see her again ?
that' s the way it has to be .
i' il give you five minutes .
well , so long , kid .
yeah .
oh , boo , it' s been fun .
go ahead .
go grow up .
boo ? !
boo .
look at that .
you know ...
that' s cute .
boo ? !
well , that' s very nice .
come here , you .
he' s a happy bear .
nothing is coming out your closet to scare you anymore , right ?
good bye , boo .
kitty .
kitty has to go .
kitty ?
none of this has ever happened , gentlemen .
and i don' t want to see any paperwork on this .
take him away .
now we can the rest the day off .
you idiot !
they are going to shut down the factory .
i' m telling you , pal .
when that wall went up , you should have waternoose' s face .
i hope we' ve got a copy of that tape .
are you alright ?
come on , pal .
we did it .
we' ve got boo home .
sure , we' ve put the factory down the toilet and ...
gee , hundred of people be out of work now .
not to mention that the angry monster will come after us ... when there is no more power .
but , hey , at least we had some laughs , right ?
laughs ? !
hey , is this thing on ?
hello .
hello .
testing .
testing .
hey , good evening .
how are you ?
how are you ?
nice to see you .
i tell you , it' s glad to be here in your room .
where you from ?
never mind .
you are in kindergarten , right ?
you know , i love kindergarten .
the best three years of my life .
of my life ? !
but i love sports .
baseball is the best .
oh , yeah .
i was the fastest one out there .
cause i was the ball .
but i was the ball .
alright .
thanks a lot .
i' il be here the whole week .
remember to tip your waitresses .
great job , mikey .
you' ve filled your quota on the first kid of the day .
you know , only somebody with this much of comedy comings ... could produce this much of energy in one shot .
and the fact that laughter is ten time more powerful than scream ... has nothing to do with it .
oh , cocoly bear , come here , you .
smotsy poo .
stop .
stop .
stop .
you are such a charmer .
did you bring the magazine ?
they have just delivered the whole box .
let me see it .
sulli and i made the cover , right ?
i don' t believe it .
coco , i' m here .
i' m on the cover of the magazine .
this is great .
hey , sulli .
yeah , mike .
i was ...
listen , have you got a minute ?
there' s something that i want to show you .
okay ?
close your eyes .
follow me .
come on .
no peeking .
keep coming .
keep coming .
come on .
keep coming .
keep coming .
alright .
follow the sound of my voice .
okay .
stop .
open up .
mike .
is that ?
sorry , it took so long , pal .
there was a lot of wood to go through .
you know it only works if you have every piece .
boo ?
kitty .
