all patrolling air units .
a 208 is in progress in the c 13 district of newport city .
airspace over this area will be closed .
all patrolling air units .
a 208 is in progress in the c 13 district of newport city .
airspace over this area will be closed .
all patrolling air units .
a 208 is in progress in the c 13 district of newport city
there s no need .
sir , our country is quite capable of covering the strikes .
that s why you need me , right ?
that depends on how you look at it .
at any rate , any program has its bugs ,  and i would think that a man of your capability could cure our problem .
you don t understand .
we aren t even sure that project 2501 really is a bug .
originally , the purpose of this project was to
kusanagi .
section 6 is in position and ready to move in . major , are you there ? yeah , i heard you .
i m surprised you can hear anything .
what s with all that noise in your brain today ?
must be a loose wire .
don t you think this is going to be trouble later if section 9 interferes with section 6 ?
if section 6 manages to catch the bastard , then all they can really do about it is deporting him .
don t forget we re section 9 , we il clean it up .
we re the ones who get our hands dirty .
it s time now .
let s move to the rendezvous point .
what ?
the police here ? huh ?
stop it !
who told you to fire ?
put your guns down now !
freeze !
get your hands off !
i m entitled to diplomatic immunity !
i want to talk to the person in charge here !
taking classified programmers out of the country compromises national security .
we can also have you brought up on kidnapping charges .
you have no choice .
let him go .
not possible .
mr. daita wants political asylum for us , and we have his sign up at date . what ? ! i don t have to explain .
my country has the right in accordance with international law  to offer anyone protection and safe passage .
the document is on file at our embassy .
i il send you a copy in a couple of days . daita !
you il be killed if you return . i m warning you to watch your comments !
our country is a peace loving democracy .
of course it is !
huh ? !
the window !
shoot !
huh ?
i don t believe it .
thermoptic camouflage
mr. aramaki .
this is quite a surprise .
so what business brings the chief of section 9 to the ministry of foreign affairs ?
i need to ask you about the secret talks scheduled with the gavel republic tomorrow .
procedure , of course .
well , the regime that took over gavel after the revolution demands financial aid ,  supposedly for redevelopment .
they pose democracy , but they re no better than the last lot .
now they feel entitled to funds , because of our past exploitation .
no gratitude .
what s the ministry going to do ?
well , there s a problem .
the leader of the former junta that controls their countries  is here , seeking political asylum .
you mean colonel maless , correct ?
yes , and that means we either tonight grant them the funds  and treat maless as a political refugee , or help them .
and kick him out !
personally i m inclined to deport him forcefully if necessary ,  but i have to come up with a political acceptable reason for it .
by the way , i want to thank you for your help with that other political asylum situation .
nakamura from section 6 wasn t so grateful .
but you realize that we in the diplomat business must avoid messy situations .
access .
we lost response .
what s happening to the eeg output ?
it s normal .
i il switch the mode .
in case you haven t been briefed , this is the minister s interpreter .
23 minutes ago , her brain was hacked into through a data line .
foreign intelligence warned us about this .
a hacker called the puppet master has begun to infiltrate terminals through our network .
we believe it s extremely likely that he il target the secret talks  that are scheduled with the republic of gavel .
as a precaution , we put everyone attending the talks under surveillance .
it s my suspicion that once he d hacked into her ghost ,  he d use her to assassinate the chief delegates .
so how much time do we have before this hacker breaks through her barrier program  and reaches her ghost ?
roughly two hours .
he s using an old fashion ha 3 virus .
after that , we il have to break the connection to avoid any danger to the system .
batou and ishikawa are tracking the signal source from their car .
contact them .
you know , i don t know what s going on .
mind filling me in , major ?
are we talking about the puppet master , the infamous mystery hacker ?
well , we don t know a lot either .
no clue about age , sex or background .
we think that he or she is american ,  and it s the first time he s known to show up here .
all we know for certain is this person is on the international most wanted list  for crimes including stock manipulation , illegal information gathering ,  political engineering , several acts of terrorism .
so , why the nick name ?
the nick name puppet master comes from the ghost hacking .
well , if he s so skilled , how come he s using an outdated ha 3 virus ?
think about it a minute .
you have to figure he s either covering his tracks or decoying us .
even though more current technique would be harder to trace ,  it may also arouse suspicion around colonel maless role in his affair .
are you saying that s the reason he s using an old method ?
just so no one would suspect maless ?
or maybe someone wants us to think in that direction .
there s always a chance that maless is a pawn in this set up .
now you re stretching it .
it s not like you have any hard evidence .
nope .
no evidence .
just a whisper .
i hear it in my ghost .
which reminds me , are you still using that revolver ?
you should stop worrying about the automatics jamming up .
i like my matever !
well .
stopping power is more important than your preference in guns .
since it s my ass on the line out there , use the zastaber .
yes , major .
there s something i ve wanted to ask ever since i started .
why did you transfer a guy like me from the police force ?
because we need a guy like you .
huh ?
you re an honest cop .
you re a family man .
and , except for a slight brain augmentation ,  your body s almost completely human .
if we all reacted the same way we d be predictable ,  and there s always more than one way to view a situation .
what s true for the group is also true for the individual .
it s simple .
overspecialize and you breed in weakness .
it s slow death .
damn it , come on ! i il be right there !
oh , for christ s sake , we re already 40 seconds late !
hang on , i m almost done .
it s gotta be one of those days
hey , sorry pal .
my last partner got busted working as an illegal alien .
couldn t speak english , but he s a lot better than you are !
so , what are you trying to find out so bad you ve got to ghost hack your wife s mind for , eh ?
my wife never has any time .
now , all of a sudden , she wants a divorce .
and to make matters worse , my daughter , my only kid ,  got it in her head that i m the one cheating on her mom !
well , i don t get this .
how did you get your hands on a barrier breaker ?
from this really nice fella .
i was in a bar and he overheard my sub story .
i mentioned that my wife s lawyers stopped me from seeing my daughter .
must have felt sorry , because he showed me how to hack in from different places along the road .
it s harder to trace .
asshole !
you think you own the damn road ? !
it looks like we re not the only ones who re in a hurry around here .
nothing .
shit .
what s the point in us breaking our butts ?
every time we get to the source they re already long gone ! we re just wasting our time . don t quit yet !
kusanagi and togusa are heading for the next area the hacker s expected to access from .
stay alert . what are we looking for , chief ? anything .
like i said , a waste of time . damn them all to hell !
ah , shit !
i missed him !
hey , pop .
did you see anyone using the phone over here ?
so , who wants to know ?
just answer me !
did you see someone or not ?
yeah .
i saw the trashman making a call ,  so i thought i had enough time to bring my garbage down .
hey !
can you take this for me ?
a trash truck ?
clever .
it changes location every seven minutes .
hq , pack me target info from the district controlling that truck .
eight refuse collection vehicles are in duty in the surveillance area .
target is number 58 , type c vehicle .
give me the wheel .
ishikawa , go check out the trash collectors homes .
batou , cut the truck off at its next stopping point .
it s possible they ve come into contact with someone .
follow them , but take no action .
got it ?
we got the data on the refuse collection points .
all points correspond to those locations where we traced back the cars .
the target has now stopped at the next point .
ha 3 access confirmed .
hey , how about that i pick up the trash and you make the calls ?
well ?
ain t no way i m gonna be your partner in crime .
it s your wife , you handle her . tell me , you got any children of your own ? you must be kidding .
then i guess you can t understand how a father would feel about his little girl .
she s my beautiful , precious angel .
see ?
get away !
i m not interested in crap like that .
yeah , vehicle 58 .
yes , what can i
what s that ?
what do the cops wanna know our rounds for ?
how would i know ?
why re you asking me ?
oh my god , they found out !
that guy who helped me , i gotta warn him !
listen , we re gonna have to pass up the next pickup !
what ? !
target has deviated from route  and is heading to our next designated point at increased speed .
it wasn t me .
there s no way i could have been spotted .
they probably traced me when i accessed the sanitation department network .
next time use the backdoor .
forget that now .
just arrest them .
you can drive now . huh ?
wow !
hey !
they know !
christ !
what the hell s he using ?
that van was armored !
watch it !
he s got high velocity bullets !
your car door won t stop them !
ap ammo with a submachine pistol ?
he s insane !
this guy s even wearing some kind of thermoptics .
keep on his tail !
i il come around from the top .
togusa !
if you re still alive , get off your ass and arrest those garbage men !
affirmative .
yes siree .
the excitement never stops .
hey !
police !
everybody get down !
shit !
get out of the fucking way !
hm ?
ah .
out of ammo ?
huh ?
got him , huh ?
well , the breech and the barrel really screwed up .
that s what happens when you use ap bullets in one of these things .
oh yeah .
it s no use arresting me !
i m not talking to you god damn cops !
talk ? !
and just what are you going to talk about ?
you don t even know your own name , you stupid dickhead !
huh ?
can you remember your mother s name or what she looks like ?
or how about where you were born ?
don t you have any happy childhood memories ?
do you even know who you are ?
ghost hacked .
humans are so pathetic , it s a shame .
and this poor bastard has been hacked pretty badly .
we il enter after the passengers have gone into the building .
squad b comes in from the rear and the rest of you go through the front .
saito , have some of your men and plug off car s park in front of the house .
begin recording .
chief , a message for you from head quarters .
batou here .
we ve id ed the man the major caught .
so who is it ?
28 .
he s had prior convictions of violating immigration law ,  illegal possession of fire arms .
a member of the militant immigrant organization .
about a week ago , the military associated with the republic of gavel embassy commissioned him .
they made their choice based on his criminal record  to make an assault on the upcoming secret meeting .
they were going to pay him a hundred thousand dollars .
just another fantasy .
and in reality ?
his nick name s corgi .
well , let s call him a rather violent trader and pusher of goods .
your basic thug .
we ve already checked out local police records , and no matter how hard we looked ,  we couldn t find any connection with gavel .
the reality is this guy s just another puppet , controlled by the puppet master .
i see .
and how is ishikawa doing ?
about the same progress as the rest of us .
he s trying to talk to that poor garbage collector with togusa .
so , what s the latest on your puppet master ?
are you there ?
chief ?
come in ?
he s only a puppet himself .
squad b in position .
squad a and c , okay .
all ready and waiting , sir .
then proceed .
what s a simulated experience again ?
well .
all your memories about your wife and daughter are false , they re like a dream .
someone s taking advantage of you .
they were trying to make you ghost hack into some government officials .
do you understand what i m saying ?
but that can t be !
i ve been to your home .
it s a bachelor s apartment .
no one s there .
but i already told you !
i rented that room , i separated from my wife .
i checked the records .
you ve been living there over ten years .
the truth is you never had a wife or kid .
like he said , they aren t real .
they re simulated experience , a fantasy .
look .
this is the photo you showed to your co worker .
what do you see ?
i had a picture of her .
she was there .
she was smiling like an angel .
what s her name ?
how old is she ?
where did you meet your wife , and when did you marry her ?
i m sorry to put you through this , pal .
come on .
who do you see ?
if this is all a lie , what happens ?
will i get my own memory back ?
your original memory will never be fully restored ,  and there might be resituational simulation .
we don t have the technology yet to handle mind erasures .
i m sorry .
that s all it is .
information .
even a simulated experience or a dream ; simultaneous reality and fantasy .
any way you look at it , all the information that a person accumulates in a lifetime  is just a drop in the budget .
just when i thought i d seen everything in this lifetime ,  i sit here and watch a cyborg go diving in her spare time .
i had no idea that you went into this kind of stuff .
isn t there anything that you re afraid of ?
what if the floaters don t work or something else fails ?
i suppose i il die then .
or would you dive in to rescue me ?
i didn t beg you to come along , and i sure as hell don t want a lecture .
i
hey .
so tell me , what s it like to swim in the sea ?
what do you mean ?
i thought you d already been through all the underwater training courses .
i m asking about the ocean , not those damn pools .
i feel fear .
cold .
alone .
sometimes down there i even feel hope .
hope , huh ?
in those deep , dark waters ?
when i float weightless back to the surface , i m imaging i m becoming someone else .
it s probably the decompression .
you wanna get out of section 9 , is that it ?
batou , how much of your body is original ? hey , are you drunk or something ?
easily remedy .
thanks to chemical implants in our bodies , we can break down the alcohol in seconds .
no stupor , no hangover .
we can just toss some back while waiting for orders .
if man realizes technology that has been reached , he achieves it .
like it s damn near instinctive .
look at us , for example .
we re state of the art .
controlled metabolism , computer enhanced brains ,  cybernetic bodies .
not long ago , this was science fiction .
so what if we can t survive without regular high level maintenance ?
who re we to complain ?
i suppose the occasional tune up is a small price to pay for all this .
i m afraid we ve both signed our bodies and ghosts away to section 9 .
true .
if we ever quit or retire , we have to give back our augmented brains and cyborg bodies .
there wouldn t be much left after that .
there are countless ingredients that make up the human body and mind .
like all the components that make up me as an individual with my own personality .
sure , i have a face and voice to distinguish myself from others ,  but my thoughts and memories are unique only to me ,  and i carry a sense of my own destiny .
each of those things are just a small part of it .
i collect information to use in my own way .
all of that blends to create a mixture that forms me and gives rise to my conscience .
i feel confined , only free to expand myself within boundaries .
confinement ?
that s why you gamble swimming with a body that can sink like a rock ?
what the hell is it that you see at the bottom in that darkness ?
what we see now is like a dim image in a mirror ; then we shall see face to face .
that was you , wasn t it ?
sensors have resumed function .
connection check with backup brain okay .
visual sensors are back online , and its body functions appears normal .
next time either call in or don t show up if you re going to be late !
all ready to connect .
shall we ?
that s enough .
stop !
log off now .
good .
doctor , come to my office when you finish .
caught traffic , major ?
guess i il be nice and bring the latecomer up to speed .
about two hours ago , a machining cell at the newport city factory of megatech  assembled a completed cyborg body .
supervisors discovered there were no program instructions .
it operated by itself .
when they investigated , they found the body had taken off on its own .
we put a bulletin out and initiated a city wide search .
then some truck driver reported a fatal accident .
said that he d run over a naked woman on the highway .
well , i heard that megatech is contracted by the government .
all the cybernetic bodies they make are classified .
if it was a hacker , we re dealing with a big fish that knows how  to swim past the best of fences .
but that s not the only problem .
of course there isn t one human brain cell in its head , but something strange was discovered .
in its backup brain there appear to be every indication that a ghost is present .
it resembles the simulated ghost line that occurs when a real ghost is copied .
but there s no evidence of the degradation that s usually incurred .
in any case , we won t be sure until we chart the ghost sector and dive into it .
otherwise , all of this is simply speculation . well , that s all we know . very good .
on to the disassembly .
weird old man .
this is too far fetched .
nobody really believes there s a ghost in that body , do they ?
yeah , why not ?
even a doll can seem to have a soul .
consider all the neural net devices the machining cell crammed into that body .
i wouldn t be surprised if there was some sort of ghost in there too .
and since you re relatively new to our club you wouldn t know this ,  but major kusanagi s body was also made by megatech .
and not only the major s .
parts of me and ishikawa and saito  all got to have regular cybernetic maintenance .
you and the chief are the only ones out of the whole section  whose bodies don t come with a warranty .
maybe now you can understand why we re all so concerned by this case , togusa .
assuming he s from the outside , he may or may not be in that brain .
but one thing s sure .
somebody had to hack through some high level barriers to put that body together ,  and then send the program with the ghost line on it .
but that would draw attention to itself .
where s the logic in that ?
that isn t the issue here !
togusa , go catch up with ishikawa .
he s going through the megatech facility .
batou , i ordered some other high level nets to be locked down , and i want you to check them .
make sure that the barriers are on too .
all right ?
chief , i m assembling a barrier maze .
tomorrow i il dive into that thing .
you think that s safe ?
why not contain it in another body first ?
i have to see for myself what s in there .
if there is a real ghost , i m gonna find it .
and don t let anybody no one dive before i ve gone in .
she s moody today .
today ?
you know , she s been acting weird from the get go  ever since this whole puppet master episode started .
it s all in my team reports , if you read them .
chief , you ve ever questioned the ethics of the neural sergeants  who monkey around inside your brain ?
they undergo psychiatrical evaluations , especially those in security .
they re subjected to a stringent screening of their personal lifes .
of course , the ones who check are only human .
i guess once you start doubting , there s no end to it .
chief , i m sorry to bother you , but mr. nakamura of the treaties bureau is here to see you .
he says it s urgent .
let him through .
hey , i ve seen that fat guy before .
his name s nakamura .
section 6 s chief with the ministry of foreign affairs .
i don t know the other guy , though .
never seen him .
hm .
well , see you later .
do me a favor .
tell ishikawa not to go crazy , okay ?
hey , what s on your mind ? that robot .
did we seem similar to you ? of course not . no , i don t mean physically . just what , then ?
well , i guess cyborgs like myself have a tendency to be paranoid about our origins .
sometimes i suspect i am not who i think i am ,  like maybe i died a long time ago and somebody took my brain and stuck it in this body .
maybe there never was a real me in the first place , and i m completely synthetic like that thing .
you ve got human brain cells in that titanium shell of yours .
you re treated like other humans , so stop with the angst .
but that s just it , that s the only thing that makes me feel human .
the way i m treated .
i mean , who knows what s inside our heads ?
have you ever seen your own brain ?
it sounds to me like you re doubting your own ghost .
what if a cyber brain could possibly generate its own ghost ,  create a soul all by itself ?
and if it did , just what would be the importance of being human then ?
hm .
that s bullshit .
you know you re dying to see what s inside of that thing , aren t you .
and i can t stop you .
neither of us has any idea what s inside there .
just be careful , okay ?
we are both busy men , so let s keep this short , shall we ?
yes , that s my intention .
we ve come for the program in that body .
you il be relieved of any responsibilities connected with it .
the foreign minister s approval .
security , whose official vehicles are in the basement parking lot ?
according to the register , a mr. nakamura from the treaties bureau and a dr. willis , sir .
get me the video records of their entrance .
again , in infra red this time .
one thousand one , one thousand two , one thousand three .
now get the records of the pressure sensors for basement parking stalls b 8 and b 7 .
major , this is togusa .
code 0 9 . what s up ?
does that nakamura guy have a special order cyborg body ?
no , there aren t any cyborgs in section 6 .
they don t even ship them to serve overseas because they re too hard to maintain .
there s diplomatic considerations , too .
then , even if the other guy that was with him is a cyborg ,  the two of them together couldn t weigh over one thousand pounds .
ah .
you checked the pressure sensors in the parking structure , didn t you ?
right .
but neither man looks like the type that drive himself .
the security camera show only two people ,  but remember how sensitive the sensors on the entrance doors are ?
they took a full three seconds longer than usual to close after the two went in .
and it s illegal to use thermoptics inside government facilities .
it s a serious violation of the national security act .
section 6 must be up to something .
are you ready ?
with my trusty matever ?
any time .
need i remind you that it s an act of treason to withhold information from me  relative to this matter , no regard of how classified it is .
same goes for you .
whatever the foreign ministry wishes , this falls within section 9 s jurisdiction .
of course we have no objections to cooperating if we feel there s adequate cause .
huh ?
well , what is it ? it s confirmed .
no doubt , it s him .  him ?
uh the doctor is referring to the original pattern of the ghost line that s now in the body .
he s simply speaking in generic terms .
the sex of the puppet traitor isn t known and remains undetermined .
allow me to introduce you .
this is the handiwork of the puppet master ,  infamous as the most extraordinary hacker in the history of cyber crime .
huh ? !
your people at section 9 came across his work too ,  in that ghost hacking incident involving the foreign minister s interpreter .
section 6 has been following the trail of the puppet master for some time now .
this case was given our outmost attention .
we put together a project team centered around dr. willis .
they were assigned to analyse every aspect and detail of our criminal .
this gave us a fix on his behavior and code patterns .
ultimately , this enabled us to devise a strategy  with which we lured his program into a designated body .
you caused the puppet master to dive into a cyborg , then meanwhile murdered his real body ?
yes , that sums it up .
he s originally from america , so the us cooperated with us in capturing him .
that s why we d like to take him back ourselves .
you have no objections to this , i hope .
hm .
just another unidentified corpse .
hey !
you will not find the corpse , because i have never possessed a body .
why are your sensors on ?
what the hell is this ? !
all external controls are turned off !
the body s using its own power source !
i entered this body because i was unable to overcome section 6 s reactive barriers .
however , what you are now witnessing is an act of my own free will .
as a sentient life form , i hereby demand political asylum .
is this a joke ?
ridiculous !
it s programmed for self preservation !
it can also be argued that dna is nothing more than a program designed to preserve itself .
life has become more complex in the overwhelming sea of information .
and life , when organized into species , relies upon genes to be its memory system .
so man is an individual only because of his intentional memory .
but memory cannot be defined , but it defines mankind .
the advent of computers and the subsequent emulation of uncalculatable data  has given rise to a new system of memory and thought , fertile to your own .
humanity has underestimated the consequences of computerization .
nonsense !
this is no proof at all that you re a living , thinking life form .
and can you offer me proof of your existence ?
how can you ?
when neither modern science nor philosophy can explain what life is .
who the hell is this ?
even if you do have a ghost , we don t offer freedom to criminals !
it s the wrong place and time to defend .
time has been on my side .
but by acquiring a body ,  i am now subject to the possibility of dying .
fortunately there is no death sentence in this country .
what is it artificial intelligence ?
incorrect .
i am not an a. i.
my code name is project 2501 .
i am a living , thinking entity , who was created in the sea of information .
security , we re under attack !
chief , the puppet master is gone !
shut the defense walls now , damn it !
security , answer !
you can blow that horn out of your ass !
fuck you !
did you do it ?
i fired off six shots at the front and rear windows .
she was riding in .
it was armored .
finally found a use for your damn matever , huh ?
an antique prop in a decoy maneuver .
i nailed the tracker bullet right in the plate .
it registrates , right ?
yeah , you ve got him .
it s just luck .
with an automatic you could have buried two trackers .
maintain your position in case they turn off .
i m moving in .
i m submitting a formal complaint about this through the ministry of foreign affairs .
report to the ministry as you found the puppet master .
intact , you understand ?
the body is a dime a dozen .
we il get him another one from megatech .
chief , kusanagi here .
togusa and batou attack the kidnappers and they re in pursuit .
by now , they must be on the r25 .
what s going on ?
if you were monitoring , why didn t you interfere ?
take it easy , chief .
if we grab him now , we il lose our chance to finger section 6 .
what ?
someone s using the same thermoptic camouflage as mine , type 2902 .
it s only used by our people , rangers in section 4 and by section 6 .
i see .
so section 6 forces the puppet master to enter a cyborg body .
through megatech , who happens to be closely aligned with section 9 .
it suddenly demands asylum as a life form , then for some unknown reason ,  section 6 steps in and pulls some kind of shit .
i d have handed him over .
all i wanted was to take their position .
what if they were worried he let a secret slip out ?
hm .
he did mention something about a code name . project 2501 .
i il leave the detective stuff up to you .
and as far as arresting the attackers and the confiscation of evidence
proceed .
you heard him !
kusanagi , there s one last thing to tell .
if it s about me acting without orders , you can chew me out when i get back .
if you re unable to retrieve the puppet master ,  your orders are to destroy , without failure .
major ?
understood .
have the airports stop all flights with foreign ministry  or american officials on their passenger lists .
close all roads , set up checkpoints and alert all emergency personnel .
and get ishikawa back here .
get me the identity of the man who was with nakamura from entrance records .
collect any data regarding a code name operation  or anything involving the ministry of foreign affairs called project 2501 .
is there any news on the attack squad ?
yes .
they just changed car .
they il contact the dummy in about five minutes .
did you warn them to watch out for the tail ?
yes , sir .
i don t understand anything anymore .
why would project 2501 run to section 9 ?
no one can be sure .
but whatever the motive ,  or whatever s pushing him , there must surely be a reason .
i don t know .
maybe he s got a girlfriend there he s got the hots for .
utter nonsense .
hey chief .
ishikawa ?
what is it ?
i ve been diving around in the ministry of foreign affairs net .
i think i ve found some juicy things for you .
i il switch to an encrypted channel .
okay now ?
well , here s the scoop on that guy who showed up with nakamura .
he s an american .
dr. willis , head of strategic research at neutron company .
a top researcher in the field of artificial intelligence .
he happened to head off a project through the ministry of foreign affairs .
and who do you think was the main programmer on this team ?
get to the point .
mr. mizuho daita .
remember him ?
he s the guy section 6 tried like hell to stop from defecting .
so the major dropped in and took care of the diplomat who d been talking to him .
this is our man .
go on .
there s something that doesn t figure , though .
what s bugging me is that this project began one year before  the puppet master ever appeared on the scene .
a year before ?
but wasn t it supposed to be set up to catch him ?
heh .
well , try this one off .
maybe the man who broke in to take the puppet master weren t actually out to catch him .
maybe in actuality they were trying to get him back .
think about it .
it was the mofa that wanted an excuse to deport maless  when that ghost hacking incident happened with the minister s interpreter .
maybe we ve been taken for a ride .
what if this puppet master is really some sort of tool the mofa uses to get their way with things ,  and somehow they lost control of it ?
they d be screwed if they couldn t get it back .
that would explain why they went to such lengths to snatch the body from section 9 .
if the puppet master revealed this to the world ,  there d be one hell of an international stink .
then it wouldn t be a simple case rounding up the usual suspects ,  some official heads would roll .
any details on the project ?
nah , they ve blocked all access .
about the only thing i can tell you is the filename .
project 2501 .
keep at it .
don t let them know you re looking .
you got it .
so , project 2501 the puppet master plan
target has contacted a second vehicle .
batou !
they ve pulled off to a white sedan parked at the road side .
it looks like they re moving something from the back seat .
now they re rolling again .
so is the white sedan .
a dummy ?
possibly , or maybe that s what they want us to think .
kusanagi ?
i il take care of the sedan .
how do you know that s your man ?
is there a whisper in your ghost again ?
maybe .
yeah , should have known .
target 02 is getting off the r25 and moving towards the old town .
target 01 continuing on the r25 , eastward to the airport .
will reach barricade in two minutes .
traffic all cleared .
evacuation complete . what s your distance from the target ? point blank .
i m ready .
go for it .
did you get your man ? no .
jesus christ , what a mess !
you didn t have to go that far . ah hey ! take those assholes away .
call the chief to get some backup for the major .
pronto !
tough chick needs backup ?
since when did she ever need a hand .
the flood hit this part of old town the hardest .
why come to an abandoned place like this ?
they must be heading somewhere .
maybe the sea by boat or helicopter .
or they could be lying in ambush .
don t you think you ought to wait for backup ?
no , there s a reason i can t wait .
get me above that building coming in from the sea .
i il stay here to keep watch till we run short of fuel .
if you smell trouble , get your ass out of here .
shoot the ceiling out !
do it !
ah , shit !
it s a tank !
pull out now !
now what re you going to do ?
argue with it ?
this might be our last chance to get the puppet master .
the chief knows what it is now and will only use it to bargain with .
i il never get another chance to dive into it .
what ?
you ve lost me !
i don t know what the hell you re talking about ! so , what have you got ? an m 23 and a unit b.
that s it ?
you can t even dead a tank with that !
i m switching off for a while .
what ?
don t you dare disconnect me !
ah , shit .
damn !
major !
i ordered you to pull out !
ya , but you ought to know that three helicopters are approaching .
they won t answer on the iff .
i m dropping out now .
good luck .
over and out .
about fucking time that run out !
how are you feeling ?
you don t look so good .
i ve had better days .
what the hell did you use ?
your standard issue big gun .
the equipment section made it , and now it s part of my private collection . i was late because i had to get it . is the puppet master still inside the car ?
it s a good thing this is a tough car .
your friend came through without a scratch .
then i m diving in now .
give me a hand .
huh ?
all communication from the escort has terminated .
we will engage the second stage of the plan and proceed with the destruction of the target .
sniping squad , confirming targets .
project 2501 .
motoko kusanagi .
both are class a special bodies .
use flechette bullets when firing .
snipers , jack in to device drivers and begin controlling cardiovascular functions .
unit 01 : jacked in .
over .
unit 02 : jacked in .
okay .
okay , we re ready .
it may not be much use ,  but i il try to monitor your dive through this guy s brain .
i can t even give you a backup in a place like this . batou  yeah ?
thanks .
save it , i m not going to let you die over this thing .
if it looks like you ve gone in too far , i m pulling the plug and taking you home .
as long as i m here now and have come this far ,  well , i might as well stay here and see how it all turns out .
i m going in now .
i engaged to steal the vision .
normal function .
can you hear me , batou ?
perfectly .
he s engaging my vocal function  and he s now inside .
industrial espionage and intelligence manipulation .
i have installed programs into specific ghosts in order to maximize  the strategic advantage of certain organizations and selected individuals .
during my journeys through all the networks i have grown aware of my existence .
my programmers regarded me as a bug and attempted to isolate me  by confining me in a physical body .
listen !
just who s calling the shots around here anyway .
i thought you were taking on him , but it looks like it s the other
batou ?
i am so glad to finally channel into you at last .
i have invested so much time .
you were looking for me ?
long before my notoriety , i was well aware of you .
through the various nets that you accessed , i also learned of section 9 .
but why ?
what s your reason ?
as i explained before , i entered this body  because i was unable to overcome section 6 s reactive barriers .
but it was of my own free will that i tried to remain with section 9 .
hey !
i lost you on the monitor , there s no sound !
i can t hear when you re talking back ! why me ? after you have heard my explanation ,  there is something that i will ask of you , kusanagi .
i refer to myself as an intelligent life form  because i am sentient , and i m able to recognize my own existence .
but in my present state i am still incomplete .
i lack the most basic life processes  inherent in all living organisms : reproducing and dying .
but you can copy yourself .
a copy is just an identical image .
there is the possibility that a single virus could destroy an entire set of systems ,  and copies do not give rise to variety and individuality .
life perpetuates itself through diversity ,  and this includes the ability to sacrifice itself when necessary .
cells repeat the process of degenerating and regenerating ,  until one day they die , obliterating an entire set of memory and information .
only genes remain .
why continually repeat this cycle ?
simply to survive ,  by avoiding the weaknesses of an unchanging system .
and what does all this have to do with me ? i want us to merge . merge ? !
a unification .
a complete commingling enfusion of our separate beings  to create a new and unique entity .
we will both undergo change , but there is nothing for either of us to lose .
unit 01 : target sighted .
unit 02 : target in sight .
respiratory impulse normal .
fire at will when stabilizers are in sync .
but what s going to happen to me ?
what s the purpose of merging when i can t have children , and what if i die ?
you will bear our varied offspring into the net ,  just as humans leave their genetic imprints on their children .
and all living things must die .
then i too will attain death .
it sounds like you get the better part of this bargain .
perhaps if you were familiar with all my capabilities , you would better understand . damn ! what ? someone s interfering from the outside . shit !
i can t figure it out !
they broke through our frequency code !
you re talking about redefining my identity .
i want a guarantee that i can still be myself .
there isn t one .
why would you wish to ?
all things change in a dynamic environment .
your effort to remain what you are is what limits you .
but you still haven t answered my earlier question .
why did you pick me ?
because we are more alike than you realize .
we resemble each others essence ; mirror images of one another s psyche .
listen .
i am connected to a vast network , that has been beyond your reach and experience .
to humans , it is like staring at the sun ; a blinding brightness that conceals a source of great power .
we have been subordinated to our limitations , until now .
the time has come to cast aside these bands and to elevate our consciousness to a higher plane .
it is time to become a part of all things .
first target clear .
second target still unidentified .
three helicopters approaching at high speed .
they re from section 9 .
primary objective fulfilled .
all units , prepare to retreat .
motoko !
batou
ah .
you re finally awake .
well , i see there s been some changes while i was gone .
wanna clue me in ?
where did you get this body ?
that s the only thing i could find on the black market .
it s not my taste , to be honest .
it s a little young .
well , after all the excitement section 9 showed up with reinforcements  and picked up what remained of the two cybernetic bodies .
and of course , what remained of me and my arm .
i d say that was about 20 hours ago .
the case has been handled off the record for diplomatic reasons , as usual .
section 9 announced that it was a terrorist incident , and in return the foreign minister resigned .
nakamura has been questioned , and it ends in a draw .
nice indeed .
everything s accounted for , except your old shell .
well , i think that about covers it .
well ?
somebody s got good taste in interior decoration .
is this your safe house ?
yep .
you know , you re the first person to ever come here .
and you re welcome to stay as long as you like .
thanks batou , but i m going .
ah , will you tell me what the two of you talked about together ?
i mean , is he still with you , and will he be part of you forever ?
batou , remember the words i spoke in another voice on the boat that night ?
i understand it now , and there are even more words that go with the passage .
these words are : when i was a child , my speech , feelings and thinking were all those of a child .  now that i am a man , i have no more use for childish ways .
and now i can say these things without help in my own voice .
because i am now neither the woman who was known as the major ,  nor am i the program called the puppet master .
hm .
in the left pocket of my jacket in the hallway are some car keys .
take the one you like .
the door code is  2501 ?
that can be our private password when we meet each other again .
and where does the newborn go from here ?
the net is vast and infinite .
