25 . 000
the trlplets of bellevllle
we apologize for this interruption ...
is the movie over ?
don' t you want to tell grandma ?
is the movie over ?
we now continue with a musical interlude .
in this 17th stage of the tour de france the pack , the machine of muscles and steel , finally gets going .
but before the rubber tests the overheated paving stones of marseille , these young lads still have many obstacles to face .
and a fantastic escape by the yellow jersey , who devours klaut and glutman of the canned food factory from frankfurt .
they' il have a hard time catching up on the spot where they already failed miserably last year ,
when they really had to bite the bullet .
how admirable this fierce endurance is
on the face of this great eagle .
the very top lies at an altitude of 1912 metres , the horrible ventoux , an impressive scenery of white desert , under a burning sun .
they climb standing on the pedals ,
constantly watching their gear ratio , it is hell .
but before they reach the finish , they work themselves into a sweat , and leave behind that musky smell ,
that supporters know so well .
the pack sink into oblivion .
for some the bell already sounds and they give up .
those who can not really pound the pedals ,
lose pace , fall behind , vanish into nothingness .
together with a dazzling speed comes the liberating descent to marseille .
keep going , my boy !
insurance company " the pigeon " gives away a whole week s free insurance for the best sprinter .
yes , that' s right , for free , for his bicycle .
my box !
that' s my box !
give me back my box !
is that your dog ?
i don t believe it !
the nerve !
she now has my box and the dog !
here , stuff this !
dried tadpoles
get out .
the triplets of belleville .
another racer s grave discovered .
third in two months time
sinister details
investigation got stuck
french mafia denies everything !
bellevllle thank you for your visit goodbye
is the movie over ?
don' t you want to tell grandma ?
is the movie over ?
it' s finished , grandma .
for my parents .
