and man said , " let there be light .
and he was blessed by light , heat , magnetism , gravity ... ... and all the energies of the universe .
the prolonged barrage engulfed zero one in the glow of a thousand suns .
but unlike their former masters with their delicate flesh ... ... the machines had little to fear of the bombs ' radiation and heat .
thus did zero one' s troops advance outwards in every direction .
and one after another , mankind surrendered its territories .
so the leaders of men conceived of their most desperate strategy yet .
the destruction of the sky .
lt. gaeda , please report to the op center .
all right , you maggots !
at 0800 , prepare to move out !
george company , prepare to move out .
charlie company , prepare to move out .
our father who art in heaven , we thank you for your ...
put on your spiritual armor to stand against the wiles of the devil .
hotel bravo , this is papa one .
operation dark storm initiated .
thus would man try to cut the machines off from the sun ... ... their main energy source .
may there be mercy on man and machine for their sins .
go !
go !
kill them !
kill them all !
kill them all !
kill them all !
fire in the hole !
come on , get back out there .
give us some more artillery .
... 9 o' clock , near mike johnson' s ...
hold on , i' m coming to get you !
keep firing , keep firing !
help me !
help me !
no !
help me !
my god , help me !
the machines , having long studied men' s simple , protein based bodies ... ... dispensed great misery upon the human race .
victorious , the machines now turned to the vanquished .
the bioelectric , thermal and kinetic energies of the human body .
a newly fashioned symbiotic relationship between the two adversaries was born .
the machine drawing power from the human body ... ... an endlessly multiplying , infinitely renewable energy source .
this is the very essence of the second renaissance .
bless all forms of intelligence .
your flesh is a relic , a mere vessel .
hand over your flesh , and a new world awaits you .
we demand it .
it' s getting late , sweetie .
come inside .
