only the most exceptional people become aware of the matrix .
those that learn it exists ... ... must posses a rare degree of intuition , sensitivity and a questioning nature .
signal is stable .
this frequency will continue to remain open .
however , very rarely ... ... some gain this wisdom through wholly different means .
this man is one of those few .
gentlemen , please take your marks !
of course i believe you , dan .
it' s got to be some kind of mix up .
you' il clear it up , and if you can' t , you' il go on .
just like you' ve always done .
you know that .
i don' t know , dad .
i don' t know what to believe in anymore .
well , nothing worth doing in life is easy .
and i have great faith in you , son .
i know you can do it .
thanks , dad .
this is no good , dan !
your muscles are about to burst !
listen to me , there are 5000 different reasons why you shouldn' t ...
i know , but i' m not withdrawing , tom .
does the concept " first in qualifying " mean anything to you ?
that' s enough already !
you hear me ?
this is all we' ve worked for !
injure yourself now and it' s over !
you' il lose everything !
over !
and you can kiss your career goodbye !
i' ve made up my mind .
and i' m running tomorrow .
oh , are you ?
you may run , but if you push yourself any more ... ... you' il be lucky to break nine minutes !
i mean , why bother ?
it' s just not worth it , buddy .
no one will ever beat my record .
it' s the last chance for me to finally ...
what ?
prove them wrong .
then do it without me .
hey , dan , you got a second ?
the clock' s ticking .
just wanted to ask a few questions .
you must be excited to run tomorrow .
always .
i' ve never felt this good .
so , what was it like breaking 9 . 8 in the qualifying heat ?
like nothing i' ve ever felt before .
it' s everything i' ve worked for .
and now i' m just hoping i can get back there again .
someone once said it feels like zero gravity .
you' re released from the world and you' re totally free .
that sounds amazing .
it must be really nice .
i mean , especially considering what happened .
well , i' il tell you , there aren' t any reporters out there .
all right , dan , i guess i' m going to take that as my cue .
but you should know even some of us reporters are fans ... ... so i' il just say good luck to you .
american dan davis is down !
i have an unstable signal .
he cannot wake up .
do not let him wake up .
dan davis of the united states finishes with a time of 8 . 72 seconds ... ... a new world record .
i' il tell you something ... ... there' s nothing quite like cherry pie baked by my aunt daisy .
she always bakes me one when i visit .
look forward to it actually .
it may sound like i' m bragging , but it' s really the best cherry pie in the world .
she was a bit of an eccentric .
she didn' t get along with my mom ... ... but i always loved her .
she taught me so many things .
we' d go to broadway musicals , to the movies .
now they call her the " queen of mystery literature .
lives in an elegant villa in the south of france .
but , when i go visit , she still bakes me her cherry pie .
something about biting into it , just for that brief moment tasting perfection .
like leaving your body or something .
anyone can write a novel , but no one can beat her cherry pie .
an interesting case , but nothing to be concerned about .
his memory of the race was expunged with no residual effects .
he will never run again .
he will never walk again , for that matter .
we' il continue monitoring him for a while , but anticipate no problems .
a record that will live on in people' s memories for years to come .
what more could anyone ask for ?
free ...
did you say something ?
sit down .
free ...
sit down !
