come on , honey .
if we don' t leave now , we dont get into the club .
i' m just finishing up a few e mails .
oh , what ?
my publisher wants to schedule a book tour and i' m just confirming dates .
okay , that can wait , sweetie .
the students need help identifying the cause of a fracture on a lateral epicondyle .
tglf .
you heard of that ?
yeah .
it' s some kind of acronym .
but my inbox is full .
we know that' s not true .
and there' s a tv show that needs research .
not that they listen .
we' re going .
i really should catalogue that skull .
it' s in the museum' s exhibit on the french revolution .
yeah , pepe lepew is more important than booze and boys .
i don' t think that' s his name .
tonight the basement club brings to you a number one dj around town
dj rulz
feels good , doesn' t it ?
being with people who are alive .
it' s very stimulating , i have to admit .
we' re so going to tear it up tonight .
that' s slang , right ?
right .
is my costume all right ?
sweetie , it' s not a costume , it' s a cute outfit , and yes , it looks perfect .
i know , it' s very , very warm in here .
no , because it looks great .
were so get in check up !
i love this music !
dj rulz !
he is so hot !
it' s so tribal .
you dont say tribal , sweetie .
why ?
oh , because of all the black people ?
sweetie , just for tonight , have fun , stop dissecting and take part .
well , african americans aren' t the only ones with a tribal heritage .
you saying we' re natives in some tribe ?
anthropologically speaking , we' re all members of tribes .
you' d better shut your mouth .
i just meant hip hop mirrors the direct visceral connection you see in tribal communication .
what ?
after the cartesian split he 17th century , we separated our minds from our bodies , the numinous from the animalistic .
are you calling me an animal , fool ?
no fool , shes using the cart foilosophy to say she' s down with the music .
now , who are you calling a fool , fool ?
get out of my way .
we' re going .
we' re going .
you shouldn' t have done that , bitch .
are you sure she can handle this ?
no one in our lab knows the first thing about dealing with a mummy .
i' d have to call her in anyway .
she assaulted two agents who were trying to tape off the body .
they were trying to compromise the remains .
a cloud of meth covered the dance floor .
i think they inhale quite a lot .
are you two high ?
only by accident , so it doesn' t count .
wait .
why did you bring tessa ?
this doesn' t seem like such a great date .
we were out to dinner when he got your call .
your pupils are the size of saucers .
get away from the remains !
bones , simmer down .
how long is this going to take ?
who the hell wants to know ?
i' m sorry .
he works for me .
i' m randall hall .
i run this place .
you run this place , mr. hall .
just so you know , ' cause we , uh , found some drugs on the dead ...
we found them .
we found them .
we found some drugs on the dead guy .
we' re going to want to know where they came from , why he had them ...
why ?
why he had them .
why he had them .
any idea who he is ?
any idea ?
the guy barely looks human .
what makes you think i' d regnize him ?
bones ... how did something like this happen ?
the egyptians would give the body a cedar oil enema and then rinse it with wine and cover it with salt .
but i don' t think that' s what happened here .
bones , you are totally wasted .
zack !
zack !
come here , come here . n' t thls a beautiful specimen of mummification ?
what' s going on ?
let' s just say your boss inhaled .
see how perfectly drie and preserved the skin is .
you don' t find something like this every day .
tessa , have you seen it
it' s so hard to believe that you two would be a couple .
you know , cop and lawyer .
it' s very touching .
i' m going to grab a cab .
oh , no , oh , okay , hold on .
well , uh ... sorry .
i apologize .
here .
i' m going to make it up to you , i promise . okay ?
ice cream later .
take care .
i' il talk to you later .
talk to you later .
can we just stick to the business here ?
thank you .
im gonna need a list of your employees , all right ?
we' il find out run them through the system , see if any one of them have a drug conviction .
how long before you can id him ?
well im not all tired , so i' m sure i can stay up all night and work .
we have to be careful removing him .
he' s very dry and brittle .
my first modern mummy .
bones 1x06
narkond
crystal meth is made from cold medicine , lye , and the strike pads from matchbooks .
the body was not designed to deal with that kind of assault .
so i' m finding out .
chamomile tea ?
it' s very soothing .
ji just need your results .
how about a stick to pry the monkey off your back ?
are you sure you need me here ?
payback for showing me the good life .
ok , so how is my man , the tut ?
in better shape than i am
the meth found in his lungs and nasal passages matches the meth that juiced angela and the good doctor here .
can you please keep it clinical ?
so , uh , he died of , uh , an overdose .
asphyxiation .
the meth coated the alveoli in his lungs , making breathing impossible .
so , uh , he , uh , overdosed with his meth behind the wall ?
the little space was too narrow for him to squeeze through .
he got stuck , the bag broke , and when he gasped for air , he inhaled and died instantaneously .
the dry air convection behind the wall removed most of the moisture from his body
how long he was , uh , in there ?
judging from the acarid mites in his ears , i' d say six weeks .
hey , didn' t he have hands ?
they' re easier to work with dismembered .
i' ve rehydrated them so we can get some fingerprints .
off that ?
sure .
you ever been to costa rica ?
i was flown down once .
they found a human skull ... 12, 000 years old
why ?
i' m finally getting some vacation time .
i was gonna head off on thursday .
heard costa rica was beautiful .
yes .
fascinating wildlife , lots of parrots .
oh , i don' t like parrots .
no .
people should really , really do all the talking , you know .
maybe i should ...
oh god !
what are you doing ?
the aztecs would flay people and then wear their skin as a bodysuit .
i guess you won' t be needing mittens for christmas .
did the fbi find a match ?
yup .
his name is roy taylor .
roy taylor ?
you' re kidding .
it' s dj mount !
i don' t know who that is .
mount is one of the best djs in dc .
he used to play at the club .
everyone was wondering what happened to him .
his album is really going to take off after this .
never knew this side of you , bones .
it' s dj mount .
you' re hung over .
does this make your head explode ?
i grabbed a couple hours sleep on my couch and showered in the lab' s decontamination room .
you really know how to live .
jmsjay , tupac , biggie ...
do you even know who you' re talking about ?
yeah , i' ve done my googling .
listen ... you can hear the alpha male asserting himself .
eah , fill your ass up ... with lead ? !
always a nice lyric .
i' m heading back to the club to meet the fbi forensics team .
i' m getting facts .
dj mount was starting to break , finally making some money .
someone who' s never had anything , that can go to your head .
so , he gets involved with drugs .
you didn' t know who he was hanging with or who might have been chasing him ?
dude like mount , he had a lot of enemies other artists , rivalries .
everyone wants to be number one .
i mean , you have to know who the rivals are , mr. hall . q
it affects your bottom line .
wait for me by the elevator .
rulz .
what rules ?
that' s his name .
he performs at the club .
i' m trying to keep my crew together , agent booth , but i always had to run interference between those two
why ?
ask rulz .
was it fun coming to the club ?
yeah , before the drugs and the dead body .
tilt ... tilt down .
it seems so primitive , being in a crowd of strangers , gyrating to music .
you never dance .
i' ve been told i look like a marionette in a wind storm .
you would' ve fit right in last night .
really ?
footprints .
in the dirt and the termite shavings .
someone was on the other side of him .
light .
this leads to the outside .
we need to get inside that wall .
or take it down .
one last look ?
take them in , show them around .
agent booth ?
yeah .
roy taylors father .
maybe you know him as dj mount .
mr. taylor , please come in .
thank you for seeing me .
please sit .
you' re the one looking into my son' s murder ?
investigating his death , yes , sir .
i' m sorry for your loss .
i have some information you need .
about your son' s death ?
no , sir .
about his life .
i' ve been readingin the newspaper . how my son was a part of the meth scene .
now he was killed by drugs , behind the wall right there .
what my son did ... was graduate third in his class from high school .
he would have graduated first ... except he ... he worked a full time job .
track and eld medals .
baseball .
roy never drank , and he never did drugs .
do you understand me , sir ?
mr. taylor ...
how they are portraying my boy in the newspapers is wrong .
if his mother was alive it would kill her .
i taught him a relationship with jesus .
do you understand , sir ?
a personal relationship with jesus .
with all due respect , sir , sometimes when kids grow up they change .
they move away from what they were taught .
five years old , he made this .
and a lady who ... who reads palms she looked at it and she said ... she said my boy was going to be a great man .
a good man .
he read no evil inhat boy' hand .
i can see that now , sir .
some iniquity killed my boy .
you know that word , agent booth ?
it' s from the bible .
deliver me ... from the workers of iniquity ... and save me from bloody men .
you know your salms .
i can trust that you will find out what happened to my boy ?
yes , sir .
good .
then i' m glad i came by .
can we conform to as much forensic protocol as possible ?
we' re better at this than you think .
you know what those are ?
rats . intensive scare of rats eat the laces right out of our boots .
take it easy there , willard .
here are the footprints .
there are marks on the wall .
it' s scraped .
bloosmear ... dried .
i see something .
can i retrieve ?
yes .
apparently , there' s a rivalry between mount and this guy rulz .
we saw him perform at the club last night .
did you talk to him ?
oh , no .
i don' t have enough yet .
i go in too soon , he could run .
wow , that' s a beautiful piece .
zirconium or diamond ?
i' m more focused on the dried blood and flesh at the moment .
you buy tessa jewelry ?
i ...
i really don' t want to talk about that right now .
too much of a commitment ?
i just thought because , you two were going away .
do you have anything yet ?
given the rate of air convection , and the degree of dehydration of the flesh ,
i' d say they were there at the same time .
must hurt like hell to get that thing ripped out of your belly button .
i thought it was an earring .
look at the size of the stud .
i had one of these .
before they became totally miami divorcee .
good news .
i was able to pull some particulates .
are those , uh ... ?
eyeballs ?
yeah .
two types of foreign material in the eyes
low density polyethylene residue and methamphetamine crystals .
polyethylene ?
came from the plastic bag holding the meth .
this can be cleaned now .
yeah !
that' s a real diamond .
why don' t you get her a belly button ring ?
that' s not too much of a commitment .
yeah , that' s great .
the inside of the lips was damaged by the teeth .
this was not an accidental inhalation .
the meth was pushed against his face with force .
someone was to smother him .
which would explain how the particulates got into the eye .
so he didn' t od .
he was murdered .
so we just have to find out who owns this belly button ring .
look at this .
luv rulz .
at least we know who to ask .
hello .
yeah , it' s open .
yeah , it' s open .
fbl .
special agent booth
is the fbi recruiting from america' s top model now ?
i' m a forensic anthropologist at the jeffersonian .
she works for the fbl .
yeah , i can live with that .
dr. brennan also discovered that roy taylor was murdered .
so ?
so , murder is wacked .
see , ' cause those are the rules ...
rulz .
maybe he had it come to me .
oh , so you and roy taylor don' t get along .
that sucker ran me down , man .
tried to slam me on one of his tracks , and ain' t nobody do that .
and , uh ... what happens when they do ?
i take a piece of them .
i got in his face one night at the bassment . told to disappear , and i ain' t seen him since .
' cause he knew to follow the rulz .
and , uh , maybe your girlfriend made sure that your ... your problem just went away .
that ain' t my woman no more .
i kicked her sorry ass a months ago .
what is her sorry ass name ?
eve warren .
what was she doing with mount ?
take a guess .
i guess it was just his turn .
she kept your ring ?
it' s a diamond , man .
why she gonna get rid of that ?
any idea where she is now ?
probably ripping somebody else off .
that girl don' t care about nobody but herself .
even though she got a kid , don' t care about her neither .
let her brother shoulder that .
bitch .
what happened to your hand ?
i got shot through the wrist a few years ago .
shattered the lower radius and the pisiform .
yeah .
i got some nerve damage , too .
that' s impressive
yeah !
i got shot in the back and through the leg , too .
you want to see the scars ?
thanks anyway .
let us know if you hear from eve warren .
that' s all i got for y' all .
i' m gonna get back to work .
let us know if you hear from her .
bones ?
i like this music .
dj mount trusted eve because they were sleeping together .
so she meets him in the wall , takes the drugs , kill him for rulz then he takes off .
you should write fiction .
what ?
it' s reasonable .
its not based on evidences it' s conjecture .
look , i' m positing a scenario .
we' ve been through this before .
yeah , and it always seems to be a waste of time .
now , finding a marker on a bone ... ow .
you know , i think i need a vacation .
i think you do , too .
i' m not the one who' s snippy .
snippy ?
what are you , 70 ?
see what i mean ?
i think you should find a nice , relaxing place to go on that vacation .
somewhere where you can get a massage , maybe do some yoga .
i don' t do yoga .
okay , push ups , sit ups , pull ups , that' s what i do .
that' s more cardiovascular .
yoga deals more with ...
why exactly are we talking aut this ?
because you' re tense .
because we' re talking .
you switched my music .
roy taylor ?
yes .
anything pop out at you now that the bones are clean ?
there' s some damage to the facet joint and foramen on c 4 on the right side of the neck .
that suggests his head was forced that way .
one other thing .
i was looking the skull through the microscope came across a slight depression .
barely discernible .
slight indentation ?
could be congenital or a bone anomaly .
probably .
do you ever go on vacation ?
i take my vacation when you take your vacation .
what do you do ?
go back home to michigan .
see the family .
i have three brothers and four sisters .
do you enjoy that ?
god , no .
i made the mistake of telling them .
i work with corpses and skeletons .
they think i' m a freak .
then why do you go ?
it' s my family .
they love me .
take a closer look he anomaly under the scanning microscope .
see what made that mark .
work it out , work it out .
that' s right .
good , good , good .
yeah , let' s work , let' s work .
what do you want ?
special agent booth , fbl .
this is my associate dr. brennan .
what you call this ?
the krump .
the kids they come her they dance .
they don' t gangbang .
so what do you want ?
you didn' t come here for a dance lesson .
hi , maya .
how you doing , baby ?
come on now .
we' re going to go outside and gonna play with the rest of the kids , okay ?
there you go .
we' d like to ask you a few questions about your sister eve .
what' s she done now ?
when was the last time you saw her ?
about six weeks ago when she dropped off maya .
just dropped her off and left ?
told me she needed me to watch her for a couple days .
left me some money .
did you , um , happen to have a , i don' t know , recent photo that we could take ?
evie said she had cleaned herself out
she was turning her life around , and i believed her .
and she never came back .
so that little girl out there , that' s her daughter .
she' s like a daughter to me , too .
didnt it bother you that eve never came back ?
i mean , didn' t you go look for her ?
i learned to let her go .
and eve , she' s had a lot of problems .
drugs , hanging out with the wrong people .
i mean , if i track her down and she takes maya before she' s ready ...
i' m not letting nothin ' happen to that little girl .
do you know roy taylor ?
met him .
dj mount . i like his stuff .
he' s pure .
play it for the kids .
we have reason to believe that she was with him the night was murdered .
murdered ?
you can' t find evie ?
no .
she told me she loved him .
and ... she and mount were gonna take maya away out of dc ... give her a better life , one we never had .
she said she left you some cash .
yeah .
for maya .
i' il buy what you have , two dollars to one .
sure , man ...
you may want the stooges the fbl ... who are experts , due to your so called " drug war " to run a comparison , but i' d say the methamphetamine on these bills matches the meth found with dj mount behind the wall .
and my guess is that eve was with mount at the time that he was murdered .
how about this , huh ?
dj mount rejects eve because of her questionable past .
so , uh , hey , she gets mad , she wants to leave with some money , so , uh ...
what ?
yeah , i don' t really think much about that kind of stuff .
i' m more about bugs and minerals .
sorry .
oh , come on , hodgins , hey , you' re a smart guy , you' re a smart guy .
look up from your microscope , huh ?
these are real people we' re trying to figure out here .
maybe she was just using mount , setting him up to get his drugs and money .
very nice , hodgins .
yeah ?
yeah .
real question is , where does she go next ?
you' re on fire , man .
after she left her brother' s place , because that is where she met her untimely end .
you know what ?
i' m gonna turn you into an investigator yet .
no , no , no , no .
bugs and slimede , that is where i' m happy .
the damage to his c 4 vertebra was the result of his head being twisted so far to the right .
he was moving this way , toward eve .
my bet is he was chasing her .
and that' s based on ... ?
money and meth .
she left that corridor carrying money saturated in the same meth that killed mount .
she was moving fast .
she didn' t even stop when her belly ring got ripped out .
hey , money' s a pretty good reason to get chased , hm ?
only question is , why wasn' t he facing her ?
it got thigh back there .
15 centimeters .
eve ripped out her belly button ring here , and then left a smear of blood until the corridor widened .
here .
what ?
that just ... makes me a little sick .
you pick dead bodies out of mass graves , and yanking out a belly button ring makes you sick ?
okay , okay , moving on .
all right , i' ve shot a lot of people on my time and i got to admit , that whole belly button thing makes me nauseous , too .
thank you
at this point , mount must have looked behind him but kept going .
then the passageway narrowed , so he couldn' t turn his head back toward eve .
then there' s no way she could' ve shove the meth into his face ...
eve didn' t kill him .
a third person surprised them that' s why he turned his head to look .
mount' s body prevented this third person from getting to eve , so she escaped .
but he got to mount and shoved the meth in his face and he killed him .
ah .
but the real question is , who the hell is this third person ?
why the hell you pick me up , man ?
i think you know why i brought you in .
yeah , right .
i waited for you to contact me , explain your situation , but you didn' t do that .
that' s not polite .
what are you , dea ?
metro cop ?
i' m special agent ronald oakes .
one of us ?
my orders were not to break deep cover for anybody .
out of deep regard for my fbi brother ...
i gave you the nod .
that' s bull .
i made you .
now you' re making excuses .
got any keys for these cuffs ?
fine .
have it your way .
you know i need more than aod , man .
i' m conducting a murder investigation .
now , i need to know what you know .
been 15 months on the task force investigating the links between the urban music business and gang activity .
so that' s why you got next to randall hall .
randall hall " is a clean alias .
you ran him , right ?
yeah .
came back clean ?
exactly .
his real name is terence baskin .
now , we know ... that he' s pushing meth through the club .
but we can' t get enough to touch him .
our informants disappeared .
they either get bought off or they get killed .
what about this murder ?
the night that dj mount disappeared , hall got ripped of for a mountain of meth and a ton of cash .
dj mount ripped of all ?
nah , doesn' t scan .
mount was into jesus , not chalk .
hall killed dj mount .
hall has people do that type of stuff for him .
so listen , anybody asks ... why' d you have me arrested ?
weapons beef .
so i don' t get my gun back .
no .
no .
we meet up again ... if you get an excuse , hit me .
oh ... count on it .
i' ve been investigated for years .
why do you think they never got me on anything ?
' cause you' re so smart ?
because terence baskin is my past .
i am 100 % clean now .
this is my life now .
this and my recorrd label .
not crystal meth , not gang banging .
yet much of the iconic quality of urban music lies in the perceived or actual rivalry between the principal artists .
where did you find her ?
museum .
was the rivalry between mount and mr. rulz strong enough to ...
lead to murder ?
sure , they were both capable .
add in the fact that mount was sleeping with rulz ' girlfriend eve .
yeah , in fact ...
yeah ?
rulz built himself a studio around that time .
poured cement for the pad a day after they disappeared
so ... ?
i' m saying , mount' s dead ,
eve' s gone missing .
you might want to consider that .
let' s go .
what do you think ?
oh , i think , uh , i think we need to find a way to find a body buried under a slab of cement .
well , can' t you get a warrant ?
to look around the premises , maybe , but no way to tear it up .
well , let me make a phone call .
tutti' s traveled the world finding dead bodies .
does tutti always drool like that ?
what , i' m gonna hurt her ... his feelings ?
tutti is the best cadaver dog in the world , agent booth .
it' s true .
if you were a dead body , you' d want tutti looking for you .
how can it smell anything buried under a building ? he can
once , i saw tutti find a dead body wraped in plastic , under concrete , after four years .
tutti can smell decaying blood on a tooth six feet underground .
i mean , so what ?
he drools a little .
what' s up with that ?
you know , your eyes are kind of close together , but i don' t comment .
i apologize .
is he sincere ?
yeah .
all right , then , we accept .
good boy , tutti .
tutti found something .
oh , maybe he' s just lazy .
lying down is his indicator .
tutti found it .
there' s a body under here .
you should get a warrant to bring a jackhammer for this floor .
i' d start digging here .
dental records confirm that this is eve warren .
insect activity confirms she died around the same time dj mount did .
where did booth go ?
i got to give him the news .
his girlfriend brought him a change of shirt .
they' re up in the lounge .
zack , clean the bones .
we' ve already got cause of death and identity what am i looking for ?
it might be grasping but that odd mark we found on mount' s skull , see if you can find anything like it on eve' s remains .
jamaica ?
god , that' s incredible .
mm , it' s a bed and breakfast .
there are these coral cliffs .
snorkeling , kayaking ... you two are so ready for the pre shacking up test vacation .
what do you mean ?
you have keys to each other' s places .
you' ve done the weekend away a couple times .
yeah , it' s time for the ten day vacation .
you know , jamaica' s like a dry run for living together , only with rum punch and steel drums .
yeah , see you later .
living together ?
silly .
thanks , you know , for bringing me a shirt .
yeah , okay .
i' il talk to you later .
yeah .
hi , tessa .
yeah , okay , bye .
it' s eve warren .
eve warren .
uh , cause of death ?
same as mount .
meth overdose .
pushed in the face , but there' s more .
i don' t think that rulz killed her .
she was buried under his studio .
but her wrist was broken .
bone damage indicates that was taken from behind and smash into wall
her skull shows damage to both the infraorbital and supraorbital margins and the zygomatic process .
zygo zu ... ?
you said she was killed by crystal meth .
she was .
she would' ve been hurt and stunned by the blow but not killed , certainly not immediately .
a bag of crystal meth was placed over her face actually ground into wounds , into the airway .
rulz couldn' t have smashed her into a wall ?
her radius was separated from the scaphoid and trapezium .
her right wrist was twisted hard behind her back .
there' s damage to both the elbow and the shoulder , as well .
for that to happen , eve' s attacker would' ve had to twist her arm up with his right hand while jamming the crystal meth into her face with the other .
both with a great deal of force .
rulz had been shot twice in the right hand .
i got it .
he had nerve damage .
theres no way he had the strength to kill eve warren
you did not murder eve warren .
this is a weird kind of interrogation , huh ?
cops telling me what i didn' t do .
well , then , do me a favor : tell me bones is wrong and confess to a murder .
hell , no , man .
what you think , i' m some type of idiot ?
well , do me a favor , deny it .
see , you got tricks .
you gonna twist all my words around .
better not say anything at all .
you didn' t kill eve warren .
so you say .
the rulz says say nothing .
he wants us hold him .
why ?
why ?
because every time some raper gets murdered , his business goes straight through the roof .
why should dj mount get the bump , huh ?
maybe it' s my turn .
i' il tell you what .
i' il make you a better deal .
you tell us what we need to know , and i' il have those charges laid against you , put you in the remand center .
for how long ?
oh , that depends on what you tell us .
wait !
wait !
you' re negotiating to put this guy in jail ?
sweeten the pot , i' il charge you with mount' s death , too .
you hire one of those moron lawyers , and you' il be thrown in lock up for what , maybe a month .
sweet .
where am i ... in backwards world ?
what have you got ?
look , i can tell y' all .
but y' all have to figure out the rest on your own .
we have to figure it out just from motive ?
okay , look , bones , this is , you know , sort of my thing .
man , mount was going to jump .
you mean commit suicide ?
where did you find her ?
the museum .
i mean labels .
jump labels .
you' re saying that dj mount was going to leave bassment records ?
all he needed was the money to buy himself back .
that' s why he got himself killed .
now if hall even finds out that i told you all that much ,
i' m going to end up some dried out mummy in a wall .
but what about eve ?
eve couldn' t kill nobody .
sex ' em to death maybe , but that' s about it .
oh , there' s one more thing ... the next day , hall built me a new studio .
took it out of my money , too .
so , you gonna put me in jail ?
ewell , you know , hey , it' s the least we can do , hmm ?
hey , how about this ?
hall' s got motive to kill mount .
why ?
because he' s jumping labels and he' s running away with some girl who' s stealing mount' s meth and money .
i' m starting to see how this whole motive thing works .
thank you .
it' s still murky psychological guesswork , though .
dr. brennan , i found a mark on eve warren here on the manubrium .
compare it to the mark on mount .
okay , eve tells mount that he wants to start a new life .
so she rips off the dope and the cash thinking she can build a new future with it .
it' s a story , booth . you need to find something real .
for what ?
i mean , it feels real to me ... i mean , eve is a woman in love , whs trying to escape a world that' s just crushing her .
mount finds out how much trouble the woman he' s in love with is in , so he gives up his own life to protect her it' s not enough .
they were hoping for a better life and they both wind up dead .
looks like a match .
thanks .
good job .
what the hell is that ?
not sure .
it' s a bone dimple .
but they both have it , so it can' t be genetic .
something external caused it , but i' m not sure what .
randall hall .
he' s behind this .
randall hall ... okay , he killed these two people .
we know it ; he did it .
we just can' t touch him .
and there' s no evidence linking him to the drugs , the cash or either body .
except f a couple of damn bone dimples .
i' il keep looking at the remains ... maybe find the evidence we need .
i can' t let it stand .
what ?
you know what ?
i' m going to spread the pain .
okay ?
that' s my new motto .
wait !
i can help spread pain .
wait !
we know you did it .
what ?
killed mount in that wall so that he wouldn' t leave your label .
you killed eve warren .
killed her and buried her under rulz' s studio .
in the meantime, this i going to have to remain an active crime scene .
that' s harassment .
i' il sue .
well , i' m going to harass you every chance i get .
i' m not somebody you want to mess with .
did you just poke me ?
did he just poke me with his little stick ?
this is my place .
i want to poke someone , i do it .
all right , how easily do you think i scare ?
hey , booth ?
don' t break the cane .
arrest him and confiscate the cane as evidence .
i need the cane .
arrest him for what ?
he' s the guy who pointed a gun at a federal agent .
uttering threats or smelling bad or anything .
it' s the cane we want .
fine , here .
randal hall
i am placing you under arrest ... for assault of a federal agent .
this will never go to court .
oh , let' s go find out .
oh , next time i take your gun away from you , i' il shoot you .
well then , i bette not let you get my gun again .
come on lets go !
i called tessa , to tell her a cole of places she should check out in jamaica ...
she' s not going .
what happened ?
well , she said something came up at work , but i know the truth .
how many times do you want me to poke zack ?
just once , but as hard as you can .
as hard as he can ?
why don' t i hit him as haras i can ?
because you have arms like noodles , while i am vigorous and burly .
what truth ?
that all you got , burly boy ?
they got freaked out by stage six .
what ... what is stage six ?
spend the night ;
spend the weekend ;
exchange keys ;
sexy weekend getaway ;
move in together .
i' m an anthropologist .
i know the stages of everything .
you made those up .
i did not .
yes , you did .
they got to stage five and they balked .
not booth .
booth did not balk .
sweetie , it' s always the guy .
no , booth is not a balker .
hey !
the mark on mount , the mark on eve .
they' re the same .
he can' t resist hitting them with that stupid cane .
the end of the cane , it' s a fit for both marks .
hall' s the killer .
send the cane , the photos , and the medium to the fbl .
let them confirm the match .
what , and let them have all the glory ?
my chest hurts .
yeah .. all the glory .
evidce linking rap producer randall hall with the death of rising hip hop ar dj mount
led the charges being file today by the dtrict attorney .
information coming to us slowly at this point , but as soon as details ...
getting yourself in the mood ?
trying .
you know , this ... really isn' t going to be the type of vacation i hoping for .
oh ?
tessa' s not going .
something came up at work .
too bad .
i' m sorry .
hey , i like going on vacations by myself .
really ?
sure , nothing wrong with being alone .
no , i mean , you like to go on vacation ?
yeah , i go places all the time .
you ever just , you know , sit on the beach ?
pretend there' s no such thing as skeletons ?
is that in any way fun ?
when was the last time you got away ?
got away from what ?
ah , bones , you know , ' cause what usually happens to me ...
i think about not coming back .
seriously ?
yeah , you know , you go with someone , you joke about not going back to your real life ..
the two of you laugh .
but when you' re alone ... the world is full of possibilities .
see you next week .
>> napisy pobrane z http : // napisy . org << >>>>>>>> nowa wizja napisw <<<<<<<<
