how do you plan to get inside it ?
we' re pretty sure we found a way in .
i' m sending a crew in shuttlepod .
the spheres are controlled by a network of artificial intelligence .
this section houses the redundant memory core .
it should contain a significant amount of information .
we' re hoping that' il include data on the sphere builders .
hawkins !
i' il be at your side , no matter what happens .
we' ve taken control of the weapon .
we' re going to launch it .
wait !
we have an image of your ship firing .
they left me no choice .
and you' ve left me no choice .
the crew of that ship are the last xindi you' il ever betray .
the weapon cannot be launched without three of the codes .
do you really believe we haven' t considered that ?
hoshi ?
why am i here ?
what do you want ? !
we were impressed with your linguistic abilities .
aquatic is difficult to master .
i' ve heard it spoken my entire life , but still , it doesn' t come easily to me .
maybe you should have applied yourself more .
we have some encoded data we need translated .
i' m not a cryptologist .
i have confidence in your abilities .
that' s very flattering , but you' il have to manage on your own .
if you refuse , we' il have no further use for you .
get her ready for the procedure .
she' s surprisingly strong willed for a primate .
we' il see how defiant she is after our surgeons have finished with her .
we' il have the launch codes soon enough .
faith of the heart " it' s been a long road
enterprlse getting from there to here
enterprlse it' s been a long time
but my time is finally near
and i will see my dream come alive at last
based upon " star trek " by gene roddenberry i will touch the sky
and they' re not gonna hold me down no more
scott bakula as capt janathan archer no , they' re not gonna change my mind
john bilingsley as dr. phlox ' cause i' ve got faith of the heart
i' m going where the heart will take me
jolene blalock as subcommander t' pol i' ve got faith to believe startrek . cyworld . com i can do anything
dominic keating as lietenant malcolm reed i' ve got strength of the soul myhome . naver . com/ witewave no one' s gonna bend or break me
anthony montgomery as ensign travis mayweather i can reach any star
linda park as ensign hoshi sato i' ve got faith
connor trinneer as command trip tucker jr .
i' ve got faith
faith of the heart
captioning by media access group at wgbh access . wgbh . org
sync : witewave free in editing or distribution for public domain
created by rick berman & brannon braga
075 [ 3x22 ]
the council
we need to access the data from this .
meet me in the command center in half an hour .
i' il assist you .
what have we missed ?
the reptilians took the weapon .
have they launched it ?
we don' t know .
the captain' s on his way to the surface , wants to figure out our next move .
they took hoshi .
she' s gone .
who ?
reptilians , insectoids ...
we don' t know .
they transported her off the bridge .
where' s corporal hawkins ?
the sphere had an automated defense mechanism .
he was killed .
i' m sorry , major .
well , i' m sure you did everything you could .
i' d appreciate a full report .
where are they ?
we are trying to determine their location .
it' s difficult to track them inside a vortex .
for all you know , they could be heading to earth .
they can' t deploy the weapon .
not yet .
each of the five species has a set of commands to initiate the arming sequence .
three of them are needed to activate the weapon .
they only have two .
we obviously don' t intend to give them ours .
what about the aquatics ?
their actions aren' t easy to predict , but so far they seem determined not to take sides .
it' s more likely the reptilians and insectoids will attempt to bypass the command codes themselves .
and that will take time .
they' ve abducted my communications officer .
up until now , i didn' t know why .
you believe they' il use her to decrypt the arming sequence ?
she' il never cooperate .
she may not have a choice .
this could be a command subroutine .
and it could be a letter to santa claus .
i wouldn' t mind having hoshi here right now .
we' il have to make do without her .
i just hope she' s okay .
we' re here to analyze this data , not speculate on ensign sato' s fate .
you okay ?
i' m fond of hoshi as well .
but we can' t allow her situation to become a distraction .
any luck ?
there' s a great deal of data to analyze , but we' ve made some progress .
we know the spheres are connected by a subspace energy grid .
but four of them appear to be integral to that connection .
the closest one' s here .
we' ve designated it sphere 41 .
integral how ?
i believe they act as control spheres , allowing the network to operate in concert .
if we can damage one of them , would it disrupt the entire grid ?
maybe .
it also might have no effect .
we just don' t have enough information yet .
keep at it .
aye , sir .
cooperate and this won' t be necessary .
wait .
after the injection , the parasites will invade your neocortex .
once they begin reconfiguring your synaptic pathways , you' il be much more compliant .
before your primate brain is too badly damaged to understand ,
i want to thank you for helping us destroy your world .
if they' d stayed in the vortex , we wouldn' t have found them .
they' re less than four light years from here .
why have they stopped ?
they could' ve been halfway to earth by now .
they' re attempting to arm the weapon .
the propulsion system has to be off line to do it .
how quickly can we get there ?
that wouldn' t be wise .
they' ve been joined by at least a dozen vessels .
you have nearly as many ships .
you may have noticed that reptilians and insectoids are more belligerent than we are .
their ships are armed accordingly .
we' re no match for them .
we' ve been outgunned before , sir .
we did not come all this way to give up without a fight .
would the aquatics be a match for them ?
their ships are extremely powerful .
but they' ve seen your evidence .
they' re not convinced .
that was before the reptilians murdered degra and stole the weapon .
we' re looking at civil war .
can they afford to sit back and do nothing ?
let me talk to them .
now isn' t the time to dissolve the council .
so we should leave our fate in the hands of the reptilians and insectoids ?
i disagree .
the evidence the humans provided can' t be ignored .
i didn' t quite catch that last part .
they' ve agreed to meet with us .
but don' t expect much , captain .
how long do they plan to keep us waiting ?
you have to deal with the aquatics on their terms .
they' re extremely deliberate in everything they do .
you all right ?
my species doesn' t like the water .
they' re here .
thank you for seeing me .
i' m afraid my communications officer was abducted by the reptilians .
that is regrettable , but her presence is no longer necessary .
we' ve had time to study your language .
then i' il get to the point .
we need your help .
we' ve made our position clear .
your evidence is intriguing , but far from conclusive .
we require more time to evaluate it .
and if my world gets torn to rubble in the meantime ... ?
the reptilians and the insectoids cannot deploy the weapon on their own .
that may not be true .
i believe they took my officer to help them decipher the third launch code .
after all your deliberations , you may find a decision' s been made without you .
this changes nothing .
just because the reptilians chose to act rashly does not mean we will do the same .
so , you' d rather sit back and do nothing ?
captain ! while they condemn all five of your species to extinction .
you may return to your ship .
you will be informed of our decision .
one last question .
have these guardians told you where you' il establish your new home world ?
the one humans are destined to destroy ?
is it here in the expanse ?
in case you haven' t noticed , the spheres are turning it into a trans dimensional wasteland .
none of you will be able to survive .
you say the guardians have helped you .
have they ever tried to disable the spheres ?
because we' ve found a way .
help me save my people , and i can help you save yours .
report .
she' s penetrated the first layer of encryption .
nothing further .
do you understand what we want you to do ?
i' m to bypass the aquatic encryption protocols .
and you realize we need this done quickly .
i' m not familiar with these ciphers .
i' m trying .
are you ?
no !
she' s more resistant than i imagined .
prepare her for another procedure .
you would sacrifice yourself to stop us .
don' t worry , you won' t have to live with your guilt for long .
commander !
i can' t access the arming matrix .
she' s added a layer of encryption .
you were ordered to watch her !
a deflector pulse might disrupt the subspace links .
it wouldn' t generate enough power .
we could tie the impulse reactors directly into the array .
sure , if you want to rupture every eps conduit on the ship .
the captain told the aquatics we could disable these spheres .
and i' m trying not to make a liar out of him .
really ?
what do you mean by that ?
you' ve dismissed all of my proposals .
when you come up with one that doesn' t involve blowing ourselves up ,
i' il be a little more enthusiastic .
or you might surprise me with an idea of your own .
maybe you haven' t had time to meditate i don' t know .
but whatever' s going on with you lately , i' ve had about enough .
i' il work on this in engineering .
call me if you have any more brilliant ideas .
commander .
trip !
everything that' s ... happened recently , it' s caused me to become slightly emotional .
i' ve noticed .
i apologize .
forget about it .
i wish i could .
it may take some time before i regain my control .
it will be difficult to do , especially ... on my own .
this hasn' t been easy for any of us .
you know how much i appreciate what you did for me .
when this is all over , if you want to talk , i' m all ears .
why don' t we take another crack at this ?
the council has disbanded .
the weapon is under our control .
excellent .
deploy it immediately .
as soon as we decrypt a third launch code .
we have encountered some ... difficulties .
the longer you delay , the more likely the time lines will shift against you .
then perhaps you can provide more of your valuable assistance .
help us get the code .
that' s not possible .
it should be a simple matter to peer into the past .
extract the necessary data .
we only detect large fluctuations in the timescape .
the fine details are obscured .
really ?
you' ve seen more than enough detail to learn how to meddle in our affairs to turn the xindi species against each other .
everything we' ve done has been to protect the xindi .
then finish what you' ve started , if it' s within your power .
the timelines are in constant flux .
many of them favor the primates and the arborials .
some even favor the humans .
unless that' s the outcome you desire , i suggest you find a way to launch the weapon .
this appears to be some kind of interspatial manifold on the surface of sphere 41 .
what they used to connect the spheres ?
that' s what we' re thinking .
t' pol' s figured out a way to target it with a deflector pulse .
well done .
we haven' t exactly got all the details worked out yet .
then you' d better keep at it .
if the aquatics decide to help us , they might want to hear those details .
captain , hope you didn' t make them any promises .
we' il keep working .
please do .
any word ?
it' s only been three hours .
the council once needed to resolve a simple logistical matter .
it took the aquatics six days to agree to attend the meeting .
i' m surprised you were ever able to get anything done .
on the contrary , their prudence was usually the only thing that kept the council from dissolving in the chaos .
that' s why degra had them build the weapon .
he didn' t want the reptilians and insectoids to have too much control .
that' s actually something i wanted to discuss with you .
if we' re successful and we destroy the weapon ...
what' s to prevent us from building another one ?
i knew degra for many years .
he could be difficult , uncompromising .
we argued often .
for instance , when he insisted that we meet with you .
but when degra spoke , only a fool would ignore him .
he believed there was a future between your people and ours when this is over .
i intend to see if he was right .
captain archer , please report to the bridge .
report .
six vessels approaching , sir all aquatic .
that was remarkably fast .
open a channel to the lead ship .
we' ve considered your proposal .
and ?
we will help you intercept the weapon .
thank you .
we expect you to honor our agreement .
you will attempt to disable the spheres .
how do these developments affect the timeline ?
it' s difficult to say .
they continue to fluctuate .
however , most now indicate that the humans will prevail .
then the time has come for us to intervene .
is there another problem ?
quite the opposite .
the third launch code ?
we have complete access .
it appears the primate was useful after all .
take her back to her cell .
initiate the pre arming protocols .
inform me when the weapon is ready for launch .
captain' s starlog , february 13 , 2154 .
we' re preparing to enter a xindi vortex , thanks to some help from the aquatics .
if everything goes as planned , we' il intercept the weapon in less than two hours .
enterprise may be coming apart at the seams , but i can' t say the same for the crew .
after nearly eight months in the expanse , they' re ready to do what they came to do , no matter what it takes , no matter what the cost .
have you assembled your boarding party ?
ready to deploy on your command .
i wish i was leading it myself .
your place is on the bridge , sir .
no offense , major , it' s just that ensign sato is a friend .
here' s my report on corporal hawkins .
thank you .
would you like to go over my rescue plan ?
first , i' d like to know if ... we have a problem .
sir ?
if you blame me for the corporal' s death .
permission to speak freely ?
i' ve never liked putting my people under someone else' s command .
you' re senior tactical officer , but they' re my team .
and i can' t help but think that ... if i' d been there , things might' ve turned out differently .
i did everything i could .
things happened very fast .
i understand .
i' m not finished .
hawkins may well have been a maco ... ... but he was my responsibility out there .
when we first came aboard enterprise , we definitely felt like outsiders .
if i contributed to that , i apologize .
my point is ... none of us feel that way anymore .
we' re all part of the same crew , no matter which uniform we wear .
don' t worry about ensign sato .
we' il bring her home .
mmm .
i' d almost forgotten what chef can do with a steak .
i hope the crew forgives me for not patching up the galley sooner .
i' ve heard no complaints .
except from chef , of course .
when this is all over , i plan on having a little chat with the starfleet quartermaster about what they put in those ration packs .
when this is all over ...
i won' t be complaining about the food , i' il just be happy to get back to our original mission .
hope you plan on swinging by earth first .
i told the engineering team i' d buy them a few rounds at the 602 club .
you' re both invited , of course .
i wouldn' t miss it .
what about you ?
you may buy me a drink , if you wish .
i meant , what are your plans for the future .
it' s been a long time since you' ve been to vulcan .
the high command would be lucky to get you back .
there are some colleagues i' d enjoy seeing again .
but i' ve considered formalizing my service with starfleet .
i may be able to pull some strings , get you out of basic training .
can you imagine the look on soval' s face when he sees her in a starfleet uniform ?
please let me be there .
i said i was considering it .
bridge to the captain .
go ahead .
we' re approaching the coordinates .
tactical alert !
i' m on my way .
activate the reactor .
yes , lieutenant .
commander dolim , the final arming sequence has begun .
excellent !
inform me when you are ready .
i' il be in my thermal chamber .
what is it ?
a vortex is opening .
where ?
bearing 2 7 9 , range 4, 000 kilometers .
were you expecting reinforcements ?
no .
arboreals .
send a patrol to intercept them .
more vortexes are opening .
fourteen ... 18 ships .
aquatics !
six ships approaching the weapon .
target them !
have commander kolo' s squadron maintain position !
they' re moving to intercept , but they' re keeping a substantial force around the weapon .
feel like taking them on ?
give me the word , sir .
this is captain archer .
cut us loose .
sir ... the humans .
steady , travis .
they' re breaking off .
have all ships concentrate their fire on the weapon .
we' re in range .
fire .
they' re targeting the primary generators !
continue the arming sequence !
minor damage to the starboard nacelle .
we' re still in the fight .
bring us around for another pass .
target the earth vessel !
we can' t , sir the aquatics are protecting them .
captain , i' ve located ensign sato .
she' s onboard one of the reptilian vessels .
can you get a transporter lock ?
she' s somewhere on the first three decks .
i can' t pinpoint her exact location .
send major hayes and his team .
aye , sir .
we' ve lost eight vessels .
we' ve only disabled two of theirs .
we' re no match for the aquatics .
lieutenant !
we must deploy the weapon now !
we need another five minutes .
in another five minutes , it will be destroyed and you along with it !
ensign .
ensign !
hayes to enterprise .
enterprise , respond .
we should get back to the beam in point .
the reptilians are under attack .
if we don' t act , the weapon will be destroyed .
the timelines now indicate that is the likely outcome .
proceed .
captain , there' s a massive anomaly forming near the weapon .
two more .
keep us clear of them , travis .
we' il have to pull back .
do what you can , but keep us in firing range .
aye , sir .
captain archer !
go ahead .
the anomalies are creating a barrier between us and the weapon .
we can' t get through .
hayes to enterprise .
go ahead .
we' ve got sato .
archer to tucker .
lock on to major hayes .
i wish i could , sir .
that last anomaly knocked the transporter off line .
tell them to stand by .
archer to hayes .
we' ve got a malfunction .
can you hold your position ?
affirmative .
the intruders are trapped on level seven .
and the anomalies ?
they' ve disabled three of the aquatic ships .
the guardians will not let us fail .
tucker to hayes .
go ahead .
i' m ready to get you out , but i can only transport two at a time .
and then i have to reset the buffer .
take her .
lock on kelly and sato .
ready for two more .
you two are next .
i could use a change of scenery .
stand by , major .
commander dolim .
what' s your status ?
we' ve completed the arming sequence .
captain ... the power readings from the weapon are increasing .
they' re preparing to launch .
get us close , travis .
what about the anomalies ?
i said , take us in .
aye , sir .
ready to launch on your order , commander .
open a vortex .
set a course for earth .
they' re gone .
doctor .
i told him i was ready for duty .
i' m afraid he' s a bit of a mother hen .
how' s ensign sato ?
her bio signs are stable .
thank you for bringing her home .
all in a day' s work .
use mackenzie .
what ?
she knows the team .
rely on her .
no more of that talk .
that' s an order .
cardio stimulator .
step away , please .
increase by point two joules .
how long before it reaches earth ?
ten hours .
could an aquatic ship reach it in time ?
doubtful .
they have powerful weapons , but their speed is limited .
degra' s ship is considerably faster .
what are we waiting for ?
the ship isn' t well armed .
it would be useless against the weapon .
we might be able to get a team onboard , disable it from the inside .
the reptilians will have soldiers stationed aboard the weapon .
we' il deal with them when we get there .
captain !
the aquatics joined us only because you promised to neutralize the spheres .
they expect you to fulfill that promise .
the future of our people is at stake , as well .
are you ready ?
i believe so .
we have a plan to disable sphere 41 .
if we' re right , it should disrupt the entire network .
then , as soon as we undock , set a course for sphere 41 .
at ease .
i' ve just come from sick bay , where the doctor assures me that sergeant kemper and ensign sato will make full recoveries .
unfortunately , major hayes ' injures were more severe .
he didn' t survive .
i' m sorry .
we' ve got less than ten hours before this weapon reaches earth .
the captain wants to take a team aboard to destroy it .
i don' t imagine the reptilians will make this easy for us , but that' s why you' re here .
that' s why major hayes picked each one of you for this mission .
because he knew you' d get the job done .
i need three volunteers .
woods .
ramira .
forbes .
assemble your gear .
meet me at the starboard airlock in ten minutes .
how is she ?
stable .
the xindi parasites were no match for my osmotic eel .
i need to talk to her .  she' s undergone a severe neural trauma .
she' s been inside the weapon .
i have to know what she saw .
it should be safe to revive her in two hours .
no less .
all right .
have her taken aboard degra' s ship right away .
she' s in no condition to be moved .
i don' t have any choice , doctor .
you could kill her .
i want her on that ship in 20 minutes .
she' il need another cortical treatment .
at least let me come with you .
there' s a medical bay aboard degra' s ship .
show lieutenant reed how to do it .
he' s not a doctor .
phlox ... you' re needed here .
the insectoids .
the anomalies worked to our advantage .
we were fortunate .
it was more than good fortune .
the human claims the guardians contrl the spheres .
he also started a civil war between our species .
the human didn' t kill degra .
you did .
degra was a traitor .
i' m no longer certain of that .
then it' s a good thing we already have your launch codes .
lock weapons on their ship .
sir ?
i won' t risk any more interference .
fire .
malcolm .
hang on .
bring me back a piece of that weapon .
a souvenir .
with pleasure .
all set , sir .
when we' re finished , we' il meet you at the rendezvous coordinates .
we' il be there .
captain .
good luck .
i expect you to keep him in line .
i' il do my best .
club startrekmanla startrek . cyworld . com
witewave' s star trek site myhome . naver . com/ witewave
free in editing or distribution for public domain
thanks to
captioning by media access group at wgbh access . wgbh . org
