tomorrow will be the 1styear anniversary of the explosion of kf airport . present by new mediacinema .
it was an influencial disaster for human 48 students and 4 teachers killed in this accident .
and the accident was happened after the event .
final destination ll
those people who survive from the accident . all had been killed in others accidents for others people it might be an accident . but for some others people may be this is an curse .
tonight we invite our guess to discuss about the topic .
micheal landis .
thanks you are coming .
i very happy tat u had mentioned
t ccarl more people use the extraordinary word
jennifer .
jolie
i feel that this is not right , it might be not exist .
great !
good , i believe that was an power which invicible .
this power are around us everyday .
sana .
carl
linda .
porter
this power decide us when should be alive and when should be die . people called this power as
but this is a home education .
so , i called this as * the body of death *
that means i have been surround by * the body of death *
that right .
everyday , everywhere , everytime like that .
we are set by death .
when alice came down from the plane .
and also others survivor .
actually , he had disturbing the god of death .
that also what i want to warn people .
others survivors who form the accident for your statement .
ya , but is not important
the point is howthey dia
the way they die like had been designed by someone .
that we can say there is a power around them .
but this is justyour prediction , and there are no evidences to prove it
your mind should be more brilliant
what have happen after the event just an accident .
lf it was an accident , that should be 1 or 2 of them die .
but why all of them die .
lncluding their teacher .
ya , but everyday have people die , is that also an accident .
this make people feel curious for the accident that happen everyday .
lf there are other explanation for it .
lf they can fight for particular action ?
i feel what i heard was too ridiculous
ls that we should be careful when we go out ?
exactly , that what i means . ya .
lf want to survive in this world . the only way we can survive is if we can see what we can' t see . because there are no person can escape from this . maybe today is your dead day .
ok .
i will call you .
are you bring all the thing like handphone , plane ticket ..
ya , moly has come .
you can enjoy the sunshine .
and chase beside the beach .
it too happy . you too .
that make me feel better , thanks .
ok .
good bye .
can we go now ?
i want press horn .
go .
ok , i will call you .
today is a nice day . ya . becareful
stop .
becareful .
driver , relax .
god .
donald , shall we help her ?
ok , let go .
what tou see ?
no , nothing .
maybe , we will become like her .
today you will have fun . we will see a lot of honey and we will drunk .
i like it .
tomorrow is 1 year anniversary of the explosion of the kf airplane . the memorandum activity will be carry out at 8 . 00 tonigh .
this is the journey of linclon highschool .
god .
how are you ?
karen , i' m diff .
diff , nice to meetyou .
what happen ?
now i am transferring the money and you can get the cheque soon .
ok .
i will check it again , ok ?
ok .
ls that somebody calling ?
yes , i will handle it well .
whatyou want to do ?
great .
i miss it .
you miss such a good opportunity . too bad . too bad .
oh , the car is there , go and get it .
shit
i warn you seriously , throwthe cigratte out to the window . wait , wait .
cat , what are you doing here ?
hei , peter .
oh , what the day ?
wait , i' m not talking aboutyou .
i think we should check the car don ' worry .
the car is okay . the car is ok .
it will be ok .
see that guy .
he drink beer .
ya , he is responsible .
the car in front pls turn down the volume .
what happen ?
why don' tyou put on your seat belt ?
shit , notyour business .
ya , bastard .
ls there anybody here ? help me .
driver , relax .
donald , shall we help your mom ?
ok .
what happen ?
here will happen accident . we will die .
lf you don' t drive , let me drive .
i' m serious .
what wrong ?
what are you doing ?
i listen to the radio . we are going to the one year anniversary activities . especially for eddy dell highschool .
i will help .
how ?
you scare me .
kelly , we can go now ?
shit , what are you doing here ?
kelly , have a deep breath .
shit , that old man come again .
what ?
ah , god . what wrong i have a gun ?
donald , shut up .
calm down .
shit , shit .
god damn shit .
what happen here ? there are a seriously accident happen here .
i saw it . everyone , everyday is dead people .
i sawthe accident will happen .
miss , can you get down from the car for a while ?
dive the car to that way .
my mom will love you very much .
quick , shit
we take this and get down from the car
what happen there ? sir , is that we have other way out ? then you have to u turn . now .
is that car that the truck which will kill everyone .
we should stop it .
miss , you should calm down .
you don' t look at me .
shit .
god .
this is team 13 . please send backup , there was a serious accident happen here .
donald , what happen ?
there 180 down there .
listen , sir . this too terrible , you knowthey are frighten .
frighten .
this are the most lucky people on the earth .
check evy louis this person . yesterday he escape from the explosion of volcanoes . today , he escape in the history . the others are not as lucky as him . you sit there and i will bring louis here .
i want to see the dead body .
we will make it as soon as possible .
i think all is shit , bastard .
i know you are feeling bad .
lnspector sobi is not easy to handle do you mind to tell me what happen here ?
just like what i said before .
before die , i have the sign .
i feel scare . just feeling like what .
i knowthis is too mush . but i believe u heard this number before 5180 . she jump from the plane . until now she still good .
and my six sense start from that moment .
what are you talking ?
sure you read an article about the explosion of the plane . almost all the people on the plane are die . just like a dream , disappear ya . then what happen ?
someone run away . this is so serious .
but after that all the survivor die too . heard it before .
even there people said they are surrounded by the god of death . kill everyone slowly .
until everyone is dead .
but there a survivor .
he is in stony college .
is really amazing .
ok , you think i believe this is real . it only happen once nad never happen again .
i dun understand why you are here ?
whatyou want to ask me ?
i juat feel that it will happen again .
this is the message that send by the god of death . maybe she have protector .
in my future, n i will put this as a dream .
please out .
kelly .
you ok ?
i' m so sad .
you can go now .
thank for ur patient .
can i ask you something ?
anything .
are u have the sense that can know what happen in the future ?
whatyou means by that ?
imagination* k
you sure you ok ?
ya , i knowthat sound illogical . but i scare there are other disaster .
i just feel very bad .
what ?
it not over yet .
god damn it .
even , nice to meetyou .
i' m tony , disturbing you .
i always heard you out for fun . where you go ? call me .
ok . do you still remember lastyear , i always recall you .
i just want to greetyou . call me when you free , the number is 555 0123 , bye .
here got what ?
shit .
hai, even i don' t know where kelly been , i hope that she can come back soon
even , why don' tyou pick up the phone
get out .
shit .
god .
mom , just simply open 1 of the channel
i don' t know what are you doing for the whole day ?
ya , channel no .
4 not bad . here .
i have to go .
hey , i have to go .
today hotnews is road no .
23 have a terrible traffic jam for 9 hours . there are 18 people die in the accident . the polis was trying to find out is there still have survivor . the polis ignore to tell the name of the victim . 00 : 28 : 03 : 13 , rm their family directly . here is the screen which can be seen .
god the place get into the fire .
no . the last survivor was survive from the side of the car this was happen yesterday .
see the god damn television actually i will die . still have 3 more .
louis win the lottery and become a millionaire but at the accidentyesterday he escape from the fire from his house . he also escape from the apartment . but the leader of the fire engine had kill him .
louis die like that .
come in . baby .
take this , it will make u sleep well .
tomorrow go to dentist and check the teeth .
take a good rest .
mama .
what ? the customer there waiting for death . these people is like that , take a good rest .
for the request of the customer you should not bring any sharp thing .
example like pencil , pen , and so on . matches , lighter , ring , wrakles , ear ring* k watch , wallet* k food , drinks , keys , handphone . do you have handphone ?
medicine , poison , and other mmedicine .
let me see your finger nail .
good .
wait she danger ?
no , she just normal like you .
how long i can stay here ? then it have to depends on her .
klift . don' t go too near
they say you are related to that event .
i don' t know howto explain .
but before it happen , i sawthe pilot .
i rescue some of the people . that depends on you .
very clever . compare with me , you much more lucky have others thing else ?
that a lot of people died in the accident and also a lotofpeopleunder emergency .
lf you put them in your list , i think they were die .
what list ?
list of death .
the sequence of the survivor and the sequence of the plane explosion
are the same , it seem like it had been arrange .
that is design of death .
list of death .
i not die that time then you tell me i' m the next .
butyou said there was people die yesterday
that means someone should be die
i hope my friend still alive . congratulation , you are the last 1 to die .
don' t worry , if others people die then we will be ok .
that illogical .
you say you will die accordingly to the sequence .
but my friend should be the last one to die nut not the 1st wait .
from the last to the 1st one
in the lis , the women is the 1st one and then the kid . then is edison , and then my friend
that is what happen .
we better ask him then whatyou want me to do ?
say it clear .
becareful .
what ?
do you see something , something in front of you ?
the area is too big then you want me to see the people at the bar or others don' t leave anything find out something which is not related to this you have to help me .
i can do nothing . you been attack .
look around , you want to be attack , kimberries .
you can help other that means you are clever but don' t forgetthem how could you say like this , you are responsible on it . my friend died , that ways i can say like this .
this is what happen to elly
let go , i don' t want to see you again .
you know , you are a covert . just because of your selfish , never care for other people .
hope you die early .
i call you yesterday and your father said you sleep .
louis died .
ya .
i received a lot of call is about him .
see you at my apartment tonight . you believe in this .
i not believe at the beginning . but now i believe , after the event happen to me lastyear .
klift
do you see it ?
what ?
dove . dove . is a sign .
what sign ? if what klift said was right . there someone will be attack by the dove .
i don' t understand what are you talking about . that is on the list of death . if we don' t find out the relation in between , then we will die too
doctor are waiting for you .
she want to see me release the button to reduce the paint .
jim .
you come . why so late ? because the accident at the road 23 , so i' m late . terrible , now better ?
your mom say you not very well recently . not that pain .
here got one bad tooth , your mom didn' t tell you ?
damn it , is dove .
i swear i must change the window .
it will be a little bit pain , open your mouth .
how can i work like this ?
relax
kim , can you come in and help ?
here is too noisy what , i can' t hear you .
sorry , what ?
yes , 2 o' clock afternoon .
jim , you should keep fresh , but dun move too much
ok , next will be happen at the dentist surgeon .
damn it , wait .
oh , i can' t catch it .
kim , jim there .
what he say aboutyour teeth ?
i forgot is dove
oh , god .
that woman get mad and that is her son . that crazy women , that is her son yes , actually can ... now we can not help anymore
happen again , yes ?
i suppose to go there klift is such a bull shit somebody don' t like us
i will die , right ?
i am afraid
i am not asking you this i hope you should let go
the second person die is that boy
i hope you readyfor this
walk this way come here will help us ?
come here may be can help us find out some information
i am a die people ? is probably
how are you , klift
i waiting for you somebody die that louis any problem ? a very simple question to ask you my friend has yes
we come here and hope that you can stop the kiling we will very thankful you can not lie to dead and escape from it bull shit dead have same design
i thinking of this for a long time , if there any mistake it will be very painful
look at this fire man before dead is most active do you agree ?
for you
if there anything we can help , we will try our best to help you only new live can defeat dead what do you mean people say any thing have to balance dead bring new life , new life bring dead but dead and new life are not interactive butyou can think the power of dead can bring new life
you must followthe sign , kimberry
how do you know my name
wait , new life , dead followthe sign where do you find that gut he is helping us and not joke with us
what are you doing
i shut up my mouth , bitch
ben
what is that you cant see ?
what are u looking , kimbery ? look at me , you must tell us what do you see
i am driving but i lost control because i see a lake , i drown where are you my mouth is full of water
remember that sign ? there is a bregnant women borning child ? he say only new live cant defeat dead that child is the new life , may be die at the accident newthing is not part of dead design in the car i see a bregnant women what do you say is like a mystery what do you mean we must find that bregnant women
i cant il have to go e must find her , near the lake she is giving birth soon , will has a baby
i hope we can talk how can we find here , there is million of people wei . remember the ambulance
is that
we got it we can find it by using the car number she id birth ? she is lssabella we will find her soon
dont close the door , let go my shoe
this kind of shoe will break in two week it smell like dog shit
the thing here
oh , i help you no , thanks
i will help if i cant help
come on , let me help ?
ah , is there a ambulance alright , i will keep on checking
anybody brought medicine
clam down
if whatyou say is right , i am right this crazy , people afraid of dead , the next is that bregnant women you are not the next no body should become the next scarifier , this is my view point to pass throught this we must help each other oh , i cant believe this because my career is top now i am a outstanding man and i am healthy may be you will sick soon you will be the first
look , let me see what the probability of you two if we a on a train , and it is fast but there is no place , understand
you two must hear because kimberry see this signs , she can forcast future alright , i think she is bull shit
i dont want to here about this
i think this is shit
carl , what are you doing , calm down dont lie , bull shit
no body is corrupting us exceptyou , you want to make us crazy
here come again if he want to catch us , why dontyou give us the direction deand is infront of us , from now we must help each other sleep togather , if not we will in trouble
can you come out are you kidding , what happen is there a storm
i hate this but this is not safe but il am really hate them oh , i know what do you want
lora , are you ok
i thinking of ny husband , i have nothing now do you ok if now is the time i go to heaven with my family i can accept it you must trust me , we will defeat it we must stay togather , and find that baby
i am sorry , i going lora
what are you doing finish you cant go
look , i can control my life and not depend on that crazy dead
i think you will die in the car
i dont care , may be yes , but i dont want to stay here be careful thank you hai what althoughtyou dont agree , keep this
this may be ... ah
sorry
wo
iron hook man iron hook man
i think this is iron hook man
look at the shadow , do you see oh , i see damn it
wei
lora who are you do you hear what i am saying i am sorry , i cant hear whatyou are saying what , what does he say a man with a iron hook will kill you what , lora what are you saying
ah ah ... be careful be careful ... help , help me
let me go god help god ah ...
alright , i know nowthank you stand by , dangrous situation could happen any time oh my go a life gone what happen eugene
i nearly crazy , what happen calm down what happen , where is lora go away , go away ...
eugene what actually hapen let us know give me the gun eugene give me no , damn you cool down , you must cool down
eugene give me the gun , give me the gun no no, no ... dont like this , don like this ... no eugene no ...
i want to kill myself oh my god ah ...
you forget to put bullet have six bullet my god , this this is impossible is he dieing , i think he is
is this safe , brother
i mean there is somebody in this car lie , right
let us massive , he or she
she alright now , what we afraid is safety how do you know you say you will drive the car into the lake , how can we protect
look at me , and come here this look like i begging for five dollars hear , dont disturb me ok
oh , il hate i cannot buy the backup myself my god what , what are you doing
i almost want give birth what
i want to give birth no , cannot , you can birth here you cannot give birth in front og me dont stand there , send me to the hospital give me some time
i dont want to give birth in prison sen me to hospital ok , ok
berry this is derby prison
i need a car my card use my car alright lets go
lets go , come
no body crazy like you , i am not the first like this
last time in school , i use a knife and try to kill the teacher the teacher is hurt , afetr then i chang to another schooland start my new life damn it , so sad you feel sad , lastyear , to do business he leave me , then he was kill that night train siren after he left for 10 secong , that siren save me
my god , it dangrous acctually i also have a experience like you
lastyear may , i go to buy cheese the car is full tank , but at night the fuel come out no body know what happen then what happen
i dont know , but something in gold color is full on the ground is that money yes , how do you know because that car kill derrry chan he is the one who break the tank
hai , do you know a murder in paris and how he kill all the people in a class room
like a crazy man one day in paris every thing is ok suddenly , he go into the church and fire very cruel wait , the teacher il am hurt is call warren , he been take part in the explosion damn it , that siren save me if not i will go to hell wei , wait what are those people doing people in the bolder just like my friend
tell us what
about a year ago , i and my mother rent a house
i want to go out because i want killing themselves
i come back for bath , such a idiot
i am not feeling well
then i hear a gun shot , and i run out a chilren try to take away my mother' s car he scare my mom , and he kill my mom then , you can imagine , he put the gun at me
i am very scare , i thing i will die soon
oh faster , cantyou faster, baby , faster
i have try my best all of us here have pass throught a experience that can change our life that effect everyone , every thing and sex relationship
i am not sure i can understand whatyou say
living uin the border of dead , is risky if we do have anything to scarify , we cannot survive
that' s right , i mean this , . this is real world risk is anywhere
my god stuck
ah ..... careful
everybody ok ah
eugene he cannot breath oh , you dull wei you cannot leave
i want to help that people do you want to save the baby life those people can help , lets go report , a car nomber 98 had been stuck in 180km sign , someone is injurd please sent help oh , let go alright , we will go calm down eugene relax , breath deeply , dont think other thing are you safe contact the ambulance
wei , wei , you come here , come here you have to help me , i have to leave this car
i think there is no problem , no petrol come out go , then you help me take away this wood oh , my god
you hurt my leg
father
relax , it will be ok when you reach hospital everything will be ok wei , be careful check your car and take care of him
look out miss , you cant go in be careful of your touch light be careful
you nearly kill yorself , boy be careful of your head
i know
she is ok , she will be fine
i ask you one question , alright if i die , i will hurt ?
i dont know if i die you will also sad
i think yes you help me to take this
if i die help me to take care of this and also trough my medicine , because i let my mom sad
here jeft , listen , i need some information about elizaberth
yes ? ok , tahnk you
elizaberth is in the hospital , let go how about mark
last time i tell her hai , i know , you can go i will be ok
where is froli
please keep quite of cource , just now i make it soft ok
froli
we must go now take my car key is in there
what do you see ? what are we looking for that mysteries thing is not in here
that lorry will crush in to the lake
i see myself in the hospital , there is somebody screaming
i can see clearly , i can only see a name in front of me
i think another murder will happen ah
listen , i wantyou to stop pushing him out what happen , is my baby ok ? his neck is stuck , the baby is in danger in this afternoon accident , two people die one of them is die after safe because of the shake of the ambulance make the airbag explore and cause the girl die she is waiting help in the car suddenly the air beg explore
where is elizeberth we must help the baby , call the doctor doctor calrs please , plese come to room 6 the baby cant come out, how ?
you want to die where are you going go to find eugene doctor cals here
is him wait0
situation go worst , the baby stop breathing pluse is become not stable is stuck pluse drop to 40 faster let him out where is doctor carls doctor carls doctor carls
i am not free now
i am police
elizaberth the baby will be ok
i am sorry , you cannot be here
i just want to know how is the baby
finally the baby come out
thank you , congralation no their business that wonderful
i cant find eugene dont worry , she give birth the baby , everything is ok
i cant believe , what do you see
i dun think that lzabella is the one . then what the relation , let think about it .
something related to hand .
eugene
i just only can see my hand .
beside you can see this what else you can see ?
beside hand , what else ?
wait .
eugene
no .
this hand with a lot of blood , and this all is my fault what ?
let go , we move it
doktor carls this is not related to her .
lake , there* k
what are you talking about ?
new life ... what is this ?
i know if i die then i can safe you all ...
that is relly crazy . we can make it , we should fight
we will be ok .
what kind of life can fight back* k this is my time to leave , i don ' t want to make it to my family
i want to safe all the people* k
still can
again , raedy ?
she wake up she still not stabile , i turn back my head and i want to make her safety
welcome back , i save you at the last minute .
hai , we make it .
because of you , we can escape from this .
good
ms kevin , this is very nice . thanks for your invite . this is my pleasure .
then how bow you and your family ? very good , we have a very good summer and everything back to normal
you go and see wether that is ok ?
becareful very hot .
i believe i can do it well . me too , i haveno idea about this , dad tell them my experience . what ?
brian get back his life from the danger .
that time is very dangerous and we save him .
why you never tell me , peter . you knowthis is how lucky .
ah* k
