rays ...
this character was so good .
be rested , the authorities they are already seeks of mr. estefano .
give to an absent minded banker ,
bouduller celebrated the fact of they have exposed count olaf while they crossed the cold surface of the river lakrimoss .
but klaus liked to see besides the surface of the things .
he knew that there was some thing behind his/ her day , same only tends as tracks , the spyglass , the knowledge of one more terrible fire and two words in a paper piece .
aunt josephine ?
i never heard to speak of her .
he/ she doesn' t find strange that none of the did our relatives feel well with us ?
aunt josephin .
boudullers , are you ?
yes .
oh my god , enter , enter , it is ready to a hurricane to arrive .
oh violet , looks at you .
no so fast , they can trip in the rug and if they hurt .
therefore , fast , but not a lot , ok ? !
oh they excuse , it is so much cold here , in the winter is so cold that badly got to tolerate .
does he/ she want that it calls the heater you , aunt josephin ?
oh children , it liked them not to open the doors for the handle here of house .
push the wood and she open up .
reason ?
i am afraid that the door is broken and later don' t open .
bilbo , is not a word .
i see that will have to teach him/ her english .
is the grammar the largest happiness of the life , don' t they find ?
oh yes , without a doubt .
perfect , hot soup .
actually it is cold soup .
i never cook hot , i am afraid that the stove burns .
where is your brother ?
in the kitchen .
the one what are to do ?
napkins .
oh he/ she leaves the figorfico closely , if it falls he/ she squeezes his/ her estomgo .
would you like to see some pictures ?
care , the paper cuts .
was ike ?
it was not beautiful ?
were you aunt ?
you were not afraid of lions ?
oh i was very adventurous .
the you monty , knew the uncle monty ?
no , that is not a good picture of me .
these our parents were ?
this some was club species ?
because they had all these glasses of spies ?
i don' t like my image in that picture .
did he die in a bonfire ?
no , no , no , dizzy , he was eaten by bugs .
care with the chandelier .
he falls .
he/ she could have died in any part from the lake , from that tip to other .
close to that rock it was where the bugs attacked him/ it .
they have very sharp teeth .
they are blind , but they get to smell food in a human to kilometers of distance .
i informed , ike have to wait one hour to enter in the water .. but he only waited 45 minutes .
i ask for excuse children ... close .
that area is deprived .
that era the rule of ike .
well , aunt , already thought about changing if she moved to another ranch far away from the lake , maybe if youfelt better .
i would never get to sell this house .
there were 2 types of fears , rational or irrational .
to have fear of real estate was irrational .
is a bad height ?
we have to leave of house .
be careful with those , some are poisonous .
it is taken care with the other red .
everything is well , aunt josephin .
is the black plague ?
the fault was mine , i apologize for having gone against his/ her sister .
they are two beauties , especially you .
aunt josephin .
allow him to come .
no , premita that i and klaus present him/ it .
it is said " klaus and me .
he/ she doesn' t import this is it ...
doesn' t it matter ?
is he/ she playing with me girl ?
maybe be arguments of a fisherman but the grammar is the thing more important for me .
is it ?
it is as important as a good boat .
you know as transforming a sentence .
i also get to order her/ it to the air and to turn of the contrary .
of course that it is entirely with you dear .
captain cham , at your disposal .
he is to lie .
he is count olaf .
that man that you/ they informed me ?
where ?
who ?
in front of him/ her/ you .
where is it that he is ?
behind captain cham ?
i will teach some things ...
captain cham is count olaf .
i won' t go by this again .
klaus because you made that with this poor man ?
i apologize immense .
he/ she doesn' t have importance .
he is only badly a little of the insides .
i work with this since i lost my leg .
because it is that i didn' t wait one more hour go swim , reason ?
my husband was also been hit for that bug .
at least they let to live me .
who is that can love a man only with a leg and with fishhook face .
it is completely alone ...
does he/ she want to have dinner at my house this night ?
not .
i don' t know , i am afraid of scratching the ground with this thing .
i cover the ground of newspapers .
please , the children will do a mgnifica putenesca .
it was the same meal that i took before they remove my leg .
children i will take captain cham home , and you are here to do purchases for a dinner without putenesca .
but ...
but , it is not a sentence klaus .
aunt josephin .
i have ...
they still didn' t pay that .
the boys today ...
aunt josephin .
aunt josephin , is here ?
no .
we arrived very late .
what does say he/ she ?
it is a suicide ticket .
violet , klaus and sunny when they read this my life will already have finished .
my heart is cold as ice , and i find the unbearable life .
i know that cannot understand ...
it doesn' t interest continues .
what will have taken to this desperate action .
acto is badly written .
is a suicide ticket , what does import ?
one of his/ her happiness was the grammar , because it is that he/ she has so many mistakes ?
if it was about to jump of the window maybe also he/ she had some mistakes .
understand that i am much happier like this .
as my last will in will , i leave you under the care of captain cham .
a kind and honest man .
this it was his/ her plan .
he/ she forced her to write her this ticket and later it pushed her/ it for the window .
no , it is not a ticket suicda .
it is a message .
this should have other letters here .
curdled digs .
it is going curdled even digs well there to the bottom .
she is not dead , it is hidden .
curdled digs !
he was to investigate the fires .
klaus has to go .
it moves away you of the freezer .
the something ?
it cannot be .
did he/ she already end ?
violet is better to get right your hair .
do violet have ideas ?
feel that extinguisher .
for something ?
because we needed to move until that side .
the something ?
simply help me .
we have to break that support .
to break ?
but that is what maintain this of foot .
exactly .
is he/ she sure that arrested the hair well ?
i will count up to 3 .
he/ she waits , he/ she waits , he/ she tolerates sunny , now .
the one what make now ?
she is alive , we have to go the authorities .
no , they won' t hear , they never hear .
it is olaf , he will never stop , we have that us same to find .
children are captain cham , your new guardian , be where they are that i go oh to look for you .
already east some book about navigation ?
klaus had already read 15 books about navigation , and two books about location .
but a thing is to do in theory , in prctica it is different .
very a little he/ she could have them mixture for this crossing curdled digs even .
but as the storm passed , and the waters calmed ,
boudullers were not able to to leave of feeling a certain satisfaction .
a rare moment of happiness , in their always unhappy lives .
they had gotten , and if his/ her guardian didn' t get to save them , then they would save his/ her guardian .
aunt josephin .
aunt josephin .
is he/ she here ?
children got , they deciphered the tracks in my ticket .
we are happy that is well .
it was so horrible , count olaf it forced me to do that will and later he/ she almost killed to have me to give all those grammatical mistakes .
then they did bring foods ?
foods ?
we have just left a storm .
is it later ?
as wait that we get to live in this grotto they were not brought food .
to live at the grotto ?
no aunt josephin , has to return connosco .
you leave us in will to captain cham , you are the only proof that it is lie .
no , he/ she is very dangerous children .
very dangerous ?
you are our guardian , it is right to take comta of us .
he/ she knows aunt josephin , curdled digs is sells .
soon people will come here to see him/ it and maybe some of those people buys him/ it .
aunt josephin what the one means this ?
where did you find that ?
in his/ her room .
fires .
because it was him to investigate her/ it fires ?
all be millstones .
the uncle monty ...
our parents .
they were ours lead .
children , in the world there are good and bad people .
the ones that begin the fires and the ones that turn off them .
who is to do this ?
is olaf ?
i already said too much , their parents knew the answer .
and look what happened with them .
our parents ?
what did they say ?
we should not have left that grotto .
we can still return behind , i take a risk .
what did our parents say ?
we will die .
the something ?
they are the beings .
i think it is a good thing none of us to eat there is some time .
the skull split .
klaus the one what make ?
we are to sink , to sink , to sink .
he/ she has a boat there .
we are here .
for more unpleasant that the beings could be , there was something still more unpleasant , that he/ she appeared of the thick fog .
hello , hello , hello .
i felt his/ her lack .
i think that percisam of my help .
you are that will need when we arrive city , the aunt josephin will count everything .
then i will be arrested and you will live happy forever with your guardian .
the time will pass to invent things , to read and to gnaw .
the world becomes an i besiege harmonious , everyone to sing and to dance , as the elfo .
a happy end .
was it that what were waits ?
because i find difficult somebody to believe in a woman died .
he/ she won' t play in the aunt josephin and she will count to everyone that it happened .
no , no , i don' t count anything to anybody , i promise .
please don' t throw me for the water .
it can be with the fortune , and with the children .
well vindos on board .
i disappear .
i paint the hair and mute of name .
then it is us ?
silence , the adults are talking .
i suppose that i don' t have to kill her .
on the other hand his/ her trick in the window it doesn' t turn her/ it a very reliable person .
but ...
i can be merciful .
what was ?
you committed a grammatical mistake .
thank you for having corrected me .
ready they were already with the idea .
everything did that were able to .
children , are you ?
mr. pow are ...
i saved him/ it .
i saved the boy .
conde olaf the one what is making here ?
i know that it should not have come , but when i heard that they were in danger had to come .
it seems that it was wrong .
he/ she is a very capable guardian , and i put the children to his/ her responsibility .
it is of law that doesn' t inherit anything in case some happens thing ace children .
with the relatives ' excepo or you marry .
it is really !
sr pow already spoke to him/ her about the our new piece ?
which is his/ her idea , because it is that we entered in the piece ?
here he/ she says that if the people are married they are entitled to our whole money .
but that is only a piece , he is not able to to inherit the money marrying with me in a piece .
the marriage has to be accomplished for a priest , he/ she says right here .
they are prepared for our guest ?
you are the bride , i am the judge .
who is the fianc ?
judge , doesn' t understand , the piece is real .
which is the word that i seek ?
remember judge has to say everything as if it was a true marriage .
because it is that he/ she had to tell me that ?
take her for the maquilhagem .
that is ridiculous , violet is 14 years old only , she cannot marry legally .
it can if he/ she has his/ her guardian' s permission .
and who is he ?
me .
when you say yes and you sign the certificate you will be legally my wife .
i will never say that yes , never .
he/ she leaves her/ it alone .
if he/ she doesn' t say that yes , or any thing to get mixed up , she falls .
as he/ she can make that , she is a baby .
he/ she is 14 years old , you should already know that not you can have everything that wants .
you want to be happy , to have a roof and does one besiege her/ it what can call of home ?
and the one what i want ? !
i want that enormous fortune .
and you will help myself to get what i want .
my public awaits me .
you are not going ahead with this .
i have to do that .
go there , there is always some alternative .
this time no .
he/ she is going klaus , it goes ...
there is always something that she can do .
do wait , what is that ?
i came to marry with my bride .
that it begins the marriage .
conde olaf , accepts this woman for his/ her wife in the health and in the disease until that the death separates them ?
and you violet accepts this , count olaf as his/ her husband ?
i accept .
her no it accepts , no it accepts .
sunny ?
and for the invested power , this union will be ...
official .
sunny where the key is ?
right hand please .
lament to inform that their parents died in a fire .
there are things that simply they don' t happen .
fast .
this ends here .
what is the one ?
i am busy .
we have a problem , he/ she looks upward .
it finishes like this this piece .
it was not a piece , the count will kill sunny if i didn' t go ahead with the marriage .
they have to hear me , he is only to marry with me to be with the fortune .
that part by chance is true .
violet and i are actually a blessed couple because we were married in an official cerimnia with a judge .
my god that i went me to do .
i apologize , i didn' t know ...
we will be like this together .
mr. pow !
his/ her evil one .
arrest him .
with that motivate ?
for being a montro ganncioso .
am i a montro ?
you are that it is a monster .
these children tried to tell you but you didn' t hear , never nobody hears the children .
this paper says that i have the fortune now .
and not there is anything that can do .
what finds , tell me his/ her opinion .
the marriage is not a picnic , and now he/ she is a terrible actor .
we will maintain the calm , if they come here they will go down at my level .
guilty .
i am happy for saying that count olaf it was condemned by several crimes .
bouduller were victorious , they got to unmask the mystery of the fires .
if the justice went so gentile .
count olaf it disappeared after a season in the prison .
as the children , his/ her future was uncertain .
what knew when returning for the car of mr. pow , it is that will go straight ahead .
children don' t worry that the authorities will take care of count olav
they never again returned to see that horrible man before we left maybe act time for one more stop
he/ she looks at these whole stamps .
rome , england , some me nor i know where they are .
of who it is ?
of the father and of the mother .
it is the letter !
the letter that never arrived
dear children from that we are i/ you had gone have been having a lot of longings , certain events did with that it was slower .
one day when they go older space to know everything on our trips
in heights in that the world can opinion a little friendly and sinister place .
but they believe when we say that the much more of good than of bad .
everything that has do is to seek with force .
and the one that the first view can seem one serializes of bad luck , it can be i begin him/ it of an adventure .
we hoped to arrive soon , but if the letter to arrive before they know that we loved you .
they fill us with pride know that it happens what to happen you three take care some of the other as always they did .
and remember this my wanted and never forget wherever are since they are together you he/ she has your family and they are home .
their parents
to pass the torch is a right of passage that can be of many sort things out . but secalhar the least acquaintance and more supreendente is the vision of an eyeglass
dear reader , there are people in the world no conheem the poverty they are comforted with films of birds to sing and small elfos .
people that know that there is always a mystery for solving , and they worry in researching and to remove conclusions of the proofs .
but this history is not on such people .
this history is on boudullers , and they are the type of people that you/ they know that there is always more any thing .
any thing to invent , to read or to bite , some thing to do .
