when we left the mine , we felt reality was changing ... or were we the ones changing
going deeper and deeper into the mountain range we found more natives that don' t even have a roof in what used to be their own land
finally we entered peru
thanks to a truck driver half blind , felix
i almost forgot ... today is alberto' s 30th birthday but not in venezuela , as he had envisioned
we were so tired , mom that we couldn' t even celebrate
fuser
this is humanly impossible
finally we arrived to the heart of america ...
cuzco
cuzco , peru april 2 , 1952 km 6932
after entering the city , we met don nestor
a very wise man , mom that ended up as our official guide
i was wondering sir , which one of this walls is inca ?
this one should be the inca wall , and that one is spanish
we , as a joke , call this one the inca wall and that one the wall of the incapables , those were the spanish
cuzco was the capital of the incas , but when the spanish came they destroyed everything , and named lima as the new capital
lima ?
yes
this is the plaza ?
yes
she says that she has never been to a school because she has always been near the cattle , that' s why she doesn' t know how to speak castilian only quechua
i think that before , there was enough money for everything , but now there' s little money and there are no jobs
that is affecting us more and more
since i was little i have worked with crafts and that' s how i keep on level ... regular
with both hands , with both hands
with both hands , nestor
good evening
good evening
when i was working , the owner came and he threw me out of the land
once i was producing all the products he threw me out
he threw you out ?
how ?
did he call the police ?
yes , he brought the police .
he is a powerful man , he has a lot of money
he wanted me to leave the land yes , once it was producing
yes , it was producing wheat , corn , potatoes , beans ... and i was meant to keep a part of it
but i won' t stay behind , i have to keep moving forward .
working , looking for money to educate my children
how many kids do you have ?
i have five kids
have you joined with other farmers of the area ?
yes , in the community we are organized , we help each other
we help each other , together
machu picchu , peru april 5th , 1952 km 7014
let' s see how you behave fuser , eh ?
that' s it , that' s it
for posterity
the incas had a high knowledge of astronomy , medicine , math , among others
but the spanish invaders had powder
how would america be today if things had been different ?
fuser , look what i think .
i should marry with an inca descendant and found an indigenous party
we encourage everyone to vote
reactivate tupac amaru' s revolution , the indoamerican revolution , fuser what do you think ?
a revolution without gunshots ?
you are crazy mial
how is it possible that i feel nostalgia for a world i never knew
how do you explain that a civilization capable of building this is wiped out to build ... ... this
lima , peru may 12th , 1952 km 8198
i know this is not the one no ?
mercaderes 52 , let' s ask
mercaderes street ?
mercaderes ?
2 blocks that way , then turn right and 6 or 7 blocks more
this one has to be mercaderes that one too
hey , is this one mercaderes ?
yes and that one too ?
yes
count from down there ... from down there are 2 , 4 ...
what ?
oh look
can i help you with something ?
this is the one from mariategui ... and you should also read cesar vallejo
the best part of lima , mom , was dr. hugo pesce
the chief of the program for the treatment of leprosy in peru
alberto had contacted him before starting the journey
he fed us , gave us cloth , money and some very good ideas
mariategui talks about the revolutionary potential of the natives and farmers of latin america
he says that the native main problem is the land and that the revolution will not be a copy but a heroic creation of our people
7 essays of interpretatlon of the peruvlan reallty
we are too few to be divided " , he says
everything unites us nothing keeps us apart ...
here' s the main group of patients
pesce let us stay at the guide hospital , were they treat patients in the first stage of the disease
the ones with more serious conditions are sent to san pablo' s leper s center in the amazon
zoraida , this is alberto , ernesto how are you ?
nice to meet you
well , i think we know each other well enough so i will allow myself to tell you something
i look into your eyes , ernesto , alberto , and i see a great idealism , but also a lot of doubts
that' s why i m glad that you are going to san pablo
i think you will find something important there
important for you
thanks a lot
ok , if you excuse me , i will show you something , ok ?
another surprise ?
how many surprises !
what is he bringing , little on ?
a book
a book , uh ?
eat everything tito , eh ?
this is the great love of my life ... ... after her of course
ah , ok
it' s my novel
the stillness of silence
i hope you give me the honor of reading it
of course , of course the honor is ours
you can tell me what you think after
yes , of course .
can i open it ?
yes , yes
who dares read it first ?
both of us besides he reads faster than i do , really .
ok guys ...
... that' s the boat , " la cenepa " pucallpa , peru may 25th , 1952 km 8983
in five more days you' il be in san pablo
teacher , thanks a lot for everything , for your kindness , for the tickets , the cloths , for everything .
it' s been an honor
don' t worry about anything
thanks doctor , thanks a lot
don' t you think you are forgetting something ?
you' ve said nothing about my novel
the novel , fuser did you read it ?
of course so ?
what can i say ?
i can sincerely tell you that no one can tell a story like you
it has taken a lot of effort
and what do you think ernesto ?
he is fascinated !
if he is fascinated , i would rather to hear it from him
look doctor , i feel that your book is a little beaten
i think there are many common places ...
well , that is not that bad no
basically is poorly written and that makes it hard to read
it' s a very good try doctor , but i think you should focus on what you know best
i' m sorry , teacher .
you asked for my opinion and i m giving it to you
wao son !
no one had been so blunt with me .
you have been the only one .
the only one
ok , i won' t delay you any more , go on .
thanks
good bye and ... eternally grateful and forgive me .
take care !
have you seen a bag that was over there ?
no
it is brown and small if i see it i il let you know
what is wrong with him ?
ask for help !
ask for help !
pass me that pillow
be calm , fuser
be calm , i m going to give you the adrenalin
fuser ... easy , easy ...
fuser ... easy
miss
i came to thank you personally for the help you offer to my friend and i .
thanks
don' t worry , your friend got really sick
yes he did he gave me quite a scare
and i , thanks a lot , miss .
you know , a minute ago i saw a " bufeo " around bufeo ?
well a river dolphin , but we call them " bufeo
have you ever seen one ?
no , never .
i heard it , but didn' t see it
i' m going to tell you a secret me ?
the bufeo' s genitals look like a woman' s and the natives use it to relieve themselves
but there' s a little problem , when they are done they have to kill the animal , because the suffer contractions so strong that don' t let them get out
miss , no offense but can i ask you something ?
yes
what brings you to these inhospitable waters ?
i work on the boat , i come and go between pucallpa and leticia .
i' m from pucallpa , you know ?
pucallpenian ?
pucallpian
do you know it ?
it is full of beautiful women , but you are the best
thanks you are welcome
and how do you pay for your ticket ?
i give the captain part of what i make
but ... how do you earn the money ?
miss ...
let' s just say that , if we go to your room , i il show you
my name is luz , in case you want to know who you make business with
lucecita , for a night with you i would give a pile of gold as big as the aconcagua
but , darling i don' t have a single coin
well , then my friend , you' il have to excuse me
but i have to go earn a living are you going to leave me like this
i need the fifteen dollars , fuser
her name is luz and she told me a story about a fish that the natives fuck and she gave me a little kiss
i already spent them
c' mon fuser , don' t fuck with me .
we crossed the desert together , we almost died of starvation and cold , the accident
my needs have higher priority than chichina' s pants i don' t have them anymore
i gave them to the mining couple
court her
fuck you fuser
the house wins gentlemen .
mr. lloyd retires
good night good night
make your bets gentlemen
8 soles 10 soles
1 sol 1 sol ?
what ?
this is for men , not for school kids
i didn' t know that in peru you measured a man balls in soles
ok , ok , let' s play .
cards gentlemen
card ?
one
sir ?
nothing
young man ?
one
i stay
card of course
gentlemen , the house pays .
sir ?
17 .
i' m sorry gentleman ?
thanks
you young man ?
pay !
how much did you bet ?
1 sol
the first one
ok , gentlemen , your bets 2 soles
i want to see your bets .
your bet sir ?
30 soles
gentlemen , again , blackjack !
how much do i owe you ?
30
30 paid thanks , yes sir .
i will retire now .
i think is very clear who has more balls in this table .
excuse me gentlemen
son of a bitch .
now that we are millionaires we will eat better
precisely , look at the mouthful i m about to eat
what a night , we are very lucky how are you ?
ernesto ...
luz hi
luz at your service
burning light that blinds my dreams now hold on tight for what is coming for you
ah , neruda ?
no , granado
san pablo , peru june 8th , 1952 km 10223
are you bresciani ?
how are you guys ?
how was the trip ?
long but good a little long
no the other way
nice to meet you .
bresciani nice to meet you
dr. pesce has talked very enthusiastically about you so , welcome to san pablo
by the way , i have a letter from dr. pesce for you do you want it now ?
no , no , there' il be time for that
well , since we are here i can show you something
the amazon divides the colony in two
the south part is where we keep the patients .
here , in the north part is were the staff , the doctors and nurses live .
and a couple of nuns that are very efficient
this is your room
the beds are a little hard , but that is good for your spine
you can see the hospital from here
over there and that' s the laboratory
doctor , let me introduce you to our argentinean volunteers
alberto , i understand you have some experience in baciloscopy
that' s right i believe he could help us in the lab , why don' t you take him with you
ernesto , you are going to help me in the hospital
here we have the more serious cases , we transfer them from the south area
georgina hello doctor
and do you make the operations on this side too ?
yes , on that side we have an operating room
she is silvia , daughter of one of our patients and a very good nurse
how is he ?
he' s better , doctor
then keep administering the same treatment yes
doctor , then how many patients live in the south area ?
almost six hundred
all of them peruvian ?
no , most of them yes , but there are some from colombia , venezuela and other countries of south america
i suggest you use these gloves .
it' s true that leprosy under treatment is not contagious but the nuns are very strict about this
if it' s not contagious , then this is purely symbolic yes , but i m telling you so you don' t make mortal enemies over there
well , you' il have to forgive us but we are not going to use them yes , thanks doctor
don' t say i didn' t warn you
take out the boxes .
come this way
good evening good evening
good evening .
welcome to san pablo thanks you are very kind
papa carlito , at your service nemesio reyna
ernesto guevara i' m alberto granado , a pleasure to meet you
nice to meet you
doctor , didn' t you explain the rules to them ?
nice to meet you
don nemesio , nice to meet you
papa carlito is the head of the community .
they are argentineans doctors
nice meeting you , bye
they are real gentlemen
dr. bresciani , this gentlemen arrive and think they can behave as they want ?
mother san alberto , this gentlemen have good medical experience in cordoba and buenos aires
that doesn' t give them the right to behave like this and break the rules
i suggest we leave this conversation for later , ok ?
thanks mother , you are very understanding
she is the mother superior
this is the dinning hall .
the nuns make lunch on sundays , but only for those that come to mass
the sad thing is that most of san pablo' s patients are here because they have been abandoned by their families or thrown out of their jobs
that' s why they try to adapt to their new life building their own houses , seeding , caring for animals
doctor , good morning how is silvia ?
she doesn' t want to go to surgery thanks doctor , i il go see her
silvia is a patient a little rebellious and if we don' t operate her ulna , she risks loosing her arm
hello silvia
she' s very young
can i come inside to talk to her
yes
can i sit ?
does your arm hurt ?
what is wrong with you ?
i was born with bad lungs
what a shame
no , is not that bad .
thanks to that i skipped the military service
i didn' t have to shine anyone boots
is that why you became a doctor ?
because you are sick ?
is possible .
the first word i learned was injection
i want to be useful in some way
you are wasting your time why ?
this life is hell
yes , it' s really fucked up , but we have to fight for every breath and tell death to fuck off
hey fuser , bresciani is going to write me a recommendation for an internship in cabo blanco' s hospital , in caracas what do you think ?
that' s nice .
nice ?
what' s going on fuser ?
did you see the river ?
yes
it keeps away the sick from the healthy
yes
that' s it ...
just a quick ...
are you ok ?
scalpel
it' s ok , it' s ok .
look at me
that' s it .
the nerve is coming out
it' s thick
i have four siblings , celia , ana maria roberto and juan martin
and they are the ones i miss the most actually .
and also my mom
you have to tell us these things with time
have you been playing soccer lately ?
not lately
for the next time , please wear some snickers and invite me
gladly
c' mon , c' mon
north team !
mark that one there !!
out , out
get out of there
mark that ...
out , out
gol !
gol !
what happened ?
what happened ?
they scored you one fatty !!
get out of here !
excuse me
sister , why you don' t give us food ?
the rules of mother san alberto are very clear , we only serve to those who go to holy mass
what is it ?
they won' t give us food because we didn' t go to mass
says who ?
san alberto
mother yes ?
we want to eat we deserve to eat like everyone else
yes but you didn' t go to mass no
then , how do you expect to feed the body if you didn' t feed the soul first
denying food is not very christian like yes , i doubt jesus would act like this
in this house we have a set of rules that have to be followed
i haven' t read any rule book neither did i .
i think that if find it i would eat it
your lunch
did you steal it ?
yes thanks
did you took it from san alberto ?
yes
thanks
is it deep ?
yes
do you want some " mate " ?
no thanks
what ?
from caracas ?
great !
great , isn' t it ?
should i accept ?
what do you want to do ?
maybe is time to settle down
yes , have a stable job , a girlfriend ...
get a belly
and you ?
are you going back to finish school ?
i don' t know .
if i find a way to get back to buenos aires , yes
you' re going to be 24 next week , fuser
i should be thinking on something , right ?
san pablo , peru june 14th , 1952
the mother dances well , uh ?
i like the way she dances
no , i don' t dance
thank you
it' s good uh ?
it' s really good
listen , this is the tango that chichina' s uncle played in miramar
ah yes , i like it you see yes , yes
do you know how to dance it ?
this one' s a little faster ,
but you know how to dance it .
and there' s a lady very interested in dancing with you
should i ask her ?
the bird in the stories flies and never returns
fly , fly
do you want to dance ?
do you know how to dance ?
yes
is just that this version is faster
dance ernesto !
did you think it was a tango ?
mambo , mambo , mambo
happy birthday to you !
happy birthday to you !
happy birthday , ernesto , happy birthday to you !
make three wishes fuser
friends , one moment please ...
i believe this is a great opportunity to let ernesto and alberto know , how grateful we are
not just for having gotten here , but also for their commitment and enthusiasm to the patients of san pablo during the three weeks you have spent here
for that reason , we have prepared a little surprise
tomorrow you will receive a raft to continue your journey and we will name it , suggested by this night , the " mambo tango
thanks a lot
speech !
speech !
well ... i feel obligated to thank this toast with something more than a conventional gesture
but given the poor conditions in which we travel ... the only affectionate resource that we have is the word
and is by using it , that i want to thank you all , all the staff of the colony
thanks
you , that give us this magnificent display of affection by celebrating my birthday as you would celebrate one of yourselves
and since we will leave peru tomorrow , this words also serve as a goodbye in which i want to put all my effort to give a recognition to the people of this country that uninterruptedly have overwhelmed us with nice gestures since we arrived
and i would like to highlight something more , a little off topic of this toast
but don' t worry , i won' t dance
although our meager personalities prevent us from being spokesmen of your cause
we believe , even more after this journey , that the separation of america in false and uncertain nationalities is completely fictitious
we are a single mixed race , from mexico to the strait of magellan
so , trying to free myself from any nationality load
i raise a toast for peru and for america united
cheers
what' s up with you ?
do you know where the boat is ?
no , i don' t see it
i' m going to celebrate my birthday on the other side
yes , of course , tomorrow when we find the boat you will celebrate your birthday on the other side
no , now no you won' t
my birthday is today not tomorrow i know fuser but ... are you crazy
you can' t cross the river at night with all those animals that can eat you raw
mial , how many times in this journey did we thought it was the end and look , here we are
this time is different fuser why ?
because this time i won' t be around to help you .
there' s no way i m getting in the river
you will always be with me mial , come
hey , come here you bastard mother fucker , come back here .
think of me , your mom is going to kill me
fuser , come back here .
ernesto !
listen !
son of a bitch
ernesto come back !
son of a bitch
come back here !
what' s going on ?
this crazy mother fucker wants to swim across the river
what ?
please tell me that someone has cross this river
no , no one in all the years i ve been here
ernesto , come back damn it !
hey kid , listen to your friend !
no he won' t listen
come here kid !
come back ernesto
what' s going on ?
something is moving
the current is getting stronger
what' s going on ?
that moron that is swimming across the river .
come back , ernesto
is that ernesto ?
he is swimming this way
there he is
he' s tired you can do it ernesto !
there he is
come one .
come on .
come on .
ernesto !!
he made it ? !
son of a bitch , he made it !
he made it !
he made it !
i always knew he would make it
son of a bitch
i' m going to miss you .
take care , ok ?
papa carlito is very sad take care
good luck we will miss you
thanks for everything
take care , ok you too
take care kids
good bye mauro we will always remember you
near leticia , colombia june 22nd , 1952 km 10240
caracas , venezuela july 26th , 1952 km 12425
you know , i had memorized a speech filled with anecdotes , and i can' t remember a fucking thing
that happens yeah
you still have the chance to come and work with me in cabo blanco , eh ?
you can graduate and i il wait for you
i don' t know
i don' t know
look mial , all this time we spent on the route , something happened
something that i have to think about long and hard
so much injustice , eh ?
come on , the plane is leaving !
wait , wait .
this could be useful
you kept it
is yours
i' m off now
i' il write you , ok ?
fuser ...
i have to tell you something important .
my birthday is not on april 2nd , it is on august 8th .
i told you only to motivate you
i knew you knew ?
son of a bitch
see you !
see you friend !
this is not the tale of impressive deeds
is a piece of two lives taken in a moment when they were cruising together along a given path
with identity of aspirations and a conjunction of dreams
was our vision too narrow , too partial , too rushed ?
were our conclusions too rigid ?
maybe ... ... but that aimless roaming through our enormous america has changed me more than i thought
i .. ... am not myself anymore
at least , i m not the same inside
eight years passed before the two of them would meet again
in 1960 , granado accepted an invitation to move to cuba to work as a researcher .
the invitation came from his old friend fuser , that at the time was known as commander che guevara , one of the few influential and charismatic leaders of the cuban revolution .
ernesto che guevara fought for his ideals in congo and bolivia , where he was captured by the regulation army and , with the consent of the cla , was assassinated in october of 1967
alberto granado , always faithful to his friend fuser , remained in cuba , where he founded the " school of medicine of santiago " .
today he lives in havana with his wife delia , his three sons and grandsons .
