you' re being investigated by the dsr .
they want to know why your picture' s in the rambaldi book .
they' ve decoded some of the text .
and ?
what did it say ?
they' re calling it " the prophecy .
vaughn !
pursuant to national security directive 81 a , you are in the custody of the government .
they broke the rambaldi code correctly .
so what does the prophecy say ?
this woman here depicted will possess unseen marks , signs that she will be the one to bring forth my works .
bind them with fury .
a burning anger , unless prevented .
at vulgar cost , this woman will render the greatest power unto utter desolation .
it' s vanilla .
milk shake .
will you do me a favor ?
will you remind them that i cooperated ?
that i didn' t resist ?
i don' t need these restraints .
i' il tell them .
the dsr met with the fbl .
the dsr didn' t tell me anything .
you' re interagency liaison .
interagency liaison doesn' t put me in the inner circle .
you and i don' t work well together historically .
we' ve got this juvenile animosity thing going , and that' s got to change .
let' s just start over .
hi .
i don' t know what they' re planning to do to bristow .
if i were you , i' d let it go .
this buddy of mine at princeton knows haladki .
she used to see him eating lunch at the webster rotunda .
that guy' s got the table manners of a 6 month old .
i' m gonna ask you a question .
i need you to be honest .
sure .
do you believe this thing , this prophecy ?
you do , don' t you ?
no .
no , it' s ridiculous .
but that picture looks just like her .
sydney' s gonna take down the world ?
but the dna sequence , the heart size .
they both match what rambaldi wrote .
i mean , either this thing is completely insane ...
or it isn' t .
okay , what happened ?
the fbl' s involved ?
there' s an fbi tribunal flying in from d. c.
they' re gonna question her and decide what the next move is .
ms. bristow , i' m special officer kendall , fbl .
ms. baker , mr. dunn .
you' re being held under national security directive 81 a.
per the directive , we can legally file formal charges against you based on current evidence .
we would appreciate cooperation in answering questions .
if you choose legal counsel , this meeting is canceled .
we' il determine the charges based on current evidence .
it' s your decision .
i have nothing to hide .
please state your name and occupation .
sydney bristow .
i' m an intelligence officer for the united states government .
under which agency ?
cla .
how did you come to work with the cla ?
don' t you already have a file on me ?
we would like this in your words .
i came to work with the cla through my involvement with sd 6 .
and how did you get involved with sd 6 ?
i was a student .
a freshman at college .
one day , a man came to me .
he said he worked with u. s. intelligence and that they wanted to interview me .
and you agreed .
no .
no , not at first .
it was the last thing that i was interested in , working for the u. s. government .
despite that , i found myself wondering if i could actually become a spy .
you believed that you could ?
sort of , which is crazy .
i didn' t even realize what being a spy meant .
the truth is ,
i didn' t love any of the subjects i was studying .
my father and i weren' t speaking .
my mother had died .
the highlight of my social life was my dorm' s salad bar .
so i called them .
sd 6 .
they didn' t use that name .
these men led me to believe they were cla .
they were very convincing ... are very convincing .
so you met with an organization that you believed was the cla ?
yes .
they had me sign about 500 nondisclosure agreements , and they offered me a job .
just like that ?
they had me take a job as an office assistant on the 20th floor of a corporate bank downtown .
i just assumed that the bank was somehow affiliated with the cla .
they told me they would be watching me .
this was the evaluation phase .
that lasted for six months .
the transition ?
eight months of training , tests , and propaganda .
before that , i had never fired a gun .
i had never thrown a punch .
it was during the transition i first heard the term sd 6 .
and at this time , you believed that sd 6 was affiliated with the cla ?
yes , that it was a black ops division of the cla .
meaning ...
you mean , what is black ops ?
a division that is funded by the cla' s black budget .
operations that are highly classified .
even hidden from congressional oversight .
they led me to believe sd 6 was one of these divisions and that was why they didn' t operate through langley .
you never questioned that logic ?
as i said before , mr. kendall , they were very convincing .
now , i might not have been a genius at 19 years old , but i was smart enough to know what questions to ask .
they had all the right answers .
says here you were a genius .
and how did the transition end ?
they made reference to the sd 6 headquarters .
they told me they' d take me there .
what i didn' t realize was that getting there would only require a ride in the elevator .
the office of sd 6 is located on sublevel 6 of the credit dauphine building .
the first time i walked through there , surrounded by strangers who i thought were working for the good of the country ,
i felt wildly patriotic .
and then i met arvin sloane .
so you' re sydney bristow .
yes , sir .
nice to meet you .
i' m arvin sloane .
welcome to sd 6 .
what happens if i need to go to the bathroom ?
i think we can arrange that .
anything ?
my fbi contacts don' t have access to sydney' s case .
what about devlin ?
they' re not giving him clearance .
all we know is that sydney' s being held locally , and we' ve got to find out where she is .
it' s how long she' s in custody that concerns me .
sloane wants a meeting with sydney tuesday morning .
maybe the fbi won' t put as much credence in rambaldi' s prophecy as dsr .
that' s a miscalculation .
in the current climate , the fbl' s being wildly vigilant .
if another government agency red flags someone as a potential security threat , the fbi won' t be so quick to let them go .
sydney could be held long enough to blow her cover at sd 6 ?
under directive 81 a , they could conceivably hold her without trial or charges for the rest of her life .
describe your role within sd 6 .
desk work at first , but i advanced quickly .
the first year , i was being sent out on reconnaissance missions .
the whole time , believing that you were working for the cla ?
with the exception of a half dozen high level officers , the entire office believes they work for the cla .
and you remained in school during all of this .
why ?
did sd 6 want you to ?
actually , they didn' t want me to .
it was something i wanted to do .
become a teacher .
i didn' t want to give that up .
who is daniel hecht ?
danny was my fianc .
could you tell us what happened to him , please ?
build me up  buttercup , baby  then you bring me down  and mess me around , and then , worst of all  you never call , baby , when you say you will
we had been together two years when danny proposed . don' t break my heart
i had never told anyone about my involvement with sd 6 .
but i knew that if i was gonna marry danny ... he had to know the truth .
so i told him that i was a spy .
while i was in taipei on an operation ,
sd 6 had him killed .
so , sd 6 murdered your fianc ?
yes , they did .
and that didn' t seem extreme to you ?
i don' t understand your question .
we' re trying to determine how a girl as brilliant as yourself could believe an agency that could order the assassination of an innocent civilian could actually be affiliated with the u. s. government .
you' re suggesting that i knew what sd 6 really was all along .
you claim to have learned the truth about sd 6 when ?
it wasn' t a claim .
it was the truth .
after danny ...
i refused to return to sd 6 , which they saw as a betrayal .
that' s when they came after me .
it was that night that i learned that my father ... who i was never very close to ... was also an officer with sd 6 .
get in .
daddy ?
and i learned who i was really working for .
about a decade ago , a pool of agents went freelance .
the alliance of 12 .
they' re an enemy of the united states .
i' m one of them .
sd 6 is not a black ops division of the cla .
sd 6 is a branch of the alliance .
you work for the enemy you thought you were fighting .
that' s impossible .
that was the first time i heard the truth about sd 6 .
the first time .
make sure susan gets donaldson' s briefing .
call josh .
tell him i' m gonna have to cancel lunch .
what' d you say before about haladki ?
i don' t think he showers .
about your friend .
she used to see him at lunch .
at the webster rotunda .
at the adams federal building ?
why ?
you' re not allowed in the rotunda unless you' re a ranking fbi officer .
no way .
hey , you know what ?
excuse me .
before you joined the agency , you were with the bureau .
my history with the fbi is right on my rsum .
you know exactly what fbi protocol is , and you know where sydney' s being held .
you have lost your mind .
you' re the one on the witch hunt .
look , we decoded 47 distinct and verifiable rambaldi predictions .
the guy hasn' t been wrong once .
where is she ?
what if he' s not wrong about this one ?
what if sydney bristow is a threat ?
what if rambaldi got it right ?
what did they tell you was the objective of sd 6 ?
the retrieval and study of intelligence , both military and industrial , throughout the world , that is critical to the superiority and survival of the united states of america .
it' s the company line .
well , what does " sd " stand for ?
section desparu .
the section that doesn' t exist .
alain christophe , one of the alliance founders .
the term was his .
explain to us about the alliance of 12 .
the alliance is like a board of directors .
some are from the private sector .
most are former intelligence officers .
all wealthy .
they started a company together , except this company , the alliance , trades intelligence .
so you' re saying they' re after ...
weapons , military secrets , industrial intel , medical tech , computer advances , political agendas .
anything the other guy wants .
the other guy being ?
governments , corporations , wealthy citizens , families .
it' s all black market .
it' s organized crime .
could you give me an example ?
do you remember the carbon proxy disaster in ' 92 ?
an accidental methyl isocyanate leak at the manufacturing plant in bangalore , india .
killed 3, 000 people .
another 1, 000 disabled .
1996 , near kyoto , japan .
bullet train accidentally switched tracks and derailed .
150 people were killed .
last year in germany .
a transport plane suffered mechanical failure outside munich .
12 lives were lost .
none of them were accidents .
some were acts of revenge .
others were personal favors to those who helped to fund the alliance .
some were distractions , so local resources were occupied so that sd 4 or sd 7 could infiltrate a building somewhere and retrieve sensitive data .
go on .
after what they did to danny , what they tried to do to me ,
i swore i' d destroy them .
sd 6 .
but first , i had to win back their confidence , so i stole something that i knew arvin sloane wanted .
a device based on the design by milo rambaldi .
i' m back .
then i went to the people that i thought i' d been working for all along .
that' s where i met my handler , michael vaughn .
i thought the job would be over by christmas .
it was vaughn who made it clear to me what i was really up against .
so that' s how i became a double agent .
and a few days later , your father came to see you and revealed that he was a double agent working for the cla .
that his job at sd 6 was cover , too .
yes , that' s right .
father and daughter double agents .
yes .
why would he recruit his daughter into that environment ?
he wouldn' t .
he didn' t .
arvin sloane was a friend of my parents .
it was sloane' s idea to bring me in .
he didn' t tell my father until after i was active .
why did sloane go after you ?
i don' t know .
you' re sure sloane brought you into sd 6 , not your father ?
why do you ask ?
your father' s allegiance has always been with the cla .
now , listen to me .
i have been very patient .
i' ve put up with implications that i' m not to be trusted .
but i will not accept you insulting my father .
that is unacceptable .
it was just a question .
it was an accusation .
you are questioning my honor , my loyalty .
based on a prophecy written in a book that you wouldn' t have if it weren' t for me .
i think we should take a break .
i want to finish this .
i want to get out of here .
no , sit down !
listen to me !
i want to go home !
wait a minute !
okay , here we go .
look at this .
rocking the cradle .
yes .
unless prevented at vulgar cost , this woman will render the greatest power unto utter desolation .
you gotta stop reading that .
what' s " vulgar cost " ?
michael , i don' t know .
this woman without pretense will have had her effect , never having seen the beauty of my sky behind mt .
subasio .
perhaps a single glance would have quelled her fire .
never having seen the beauty of my sky behind mt .
subasio .
that' s where rambaldi was born .
why don' t we all go to mt .
subasio ?
all right , here we go .
around the world .
what ?
what just happened ?
thanks for coming .
i checked out security section .
they have nothing on sydney .
look at this .
this woman will have had her effect never having seen the beauty of mt .
subasio .
if the fbi is gonna take this so literally , then every phrase must have equal veracity .
according to rambaldi , the subject of this prophecy will have never seen mt .
subasio .
meaning if sydney were to go there and see it ...
she couldn' t be the woman rambaldi was talking about .
it' s good , it' s good .
devlin put three calls in to the fbi director .
he was stonewalled .
the fbl' s not in the most cooperative mood .
we' il have to extract her .
get her to italy ourselves .
i know devlin would sanction transit .
we can have a jet in an hour .
the question is how to find her .
steven haladki .
he works in the l. a. office .
former fbl .
he still has ties .
haladki .
i' il talk to him .
he' s not talking .
he' il talk to me .
when we left off , we were chatting about your father .
what can you tell me about your mother ?
for most of my life ,
i thought that she was a literature professor at ucla .
i thought that she was a loving mother and an adoring wife .
apparently , i couldn' t have been more wrong .
could you elaborate ?
a few months ago , i noticed something unusual .
i found cyrillic codes in old books that my father had purchased .
i began to suspect him of having collaborated with the kgb .
but that wasn' t the case , was it ?
no .
those cyrillic codes you found in those books .
yes , they were orders from the kgb .
and , yes , they were orders to kill .
an agent received those orders and carried them out .
but , sydney , i was not that agent .
your mother was .
your mother was a traitor .
yes .
a woman who appeared to be one thing , but actually was another .
your mother .
tell me how she died .
i ...
i used to think my mother and father were driving together .
i was wrong .
my mother was actually alone .
she was being pursued by an fbi counterintelligence officer .
the roads were slippery .
there was an accident .
the cars went into the river .
after she died , your father raised you .
is that right ?
no .
he hired a nanny .
like i said , he and i didn' t have much of a relationship until recently .
so , like your father , you' re a double agent .
tell us how that works .
it always begins with something that sd 6 wants .
information , technology , classified data .
typically , sloane outlines the mission objective , then marshall reviews the tech .
marshall ?
he' s our tech guy .
this looks like just a normal phone .
hi , i' m gonna be late for dinner , dad .
don' t wait up for me .
biometric sensor .
what it does is ...
barely touch it , and you are knocked out cold .
like freebasing thorazine .
boom , you' re out .
now , this looks just like a normal purse that you would wear at the beach putting in your ... but it is a parabolic microphone .
not only do they take pictures silently , but they' re super swank .
once i have the mission laid out , i contact the cla .
i detail the sd 6 operation on a brown paper bag and wait for the cla to contact me .
after the cla reviews the mission , what happens then ?
i meet vaughn to get my countermission .
and could you give us an example of a countermission ?
sd 6 sends me to moscow to get computer disks .
the cla wants copies .
i' m in the bar .
i can see you .
are those the files ?
if they are , cough .
get ready to make a switch .
after i get back to los angeles , i have to complete a brush pass .
i give the stolen disks to vaughn so that the cla can make copies .
before i leave the airport , vaughn passes the originals back so i can deliver them to sloane ... ... all without my sd 6 partner knowing .
your sd 6 partner ?
dixon .
dixon believes that sd 6 is affiliated with the cla .
he doesn' t know you' re a double ?
that' s right .
does that ever cause problems ?
sd 6 sent us to retrieve a vaccine from a plant in badenweiler and destroy the empty building .
while i was in the laboratory ,
dixon was setting the explosive charge .
what dixon didn' t know , what i couldn' t tell him , was that the cla also had a team in that building .
i' ve got a bomb to disengage .
we' d appreciate it .
my cla countermission included disarming dixon' s bomb .
did you get the inhalers ?
we' re good .
i knew dixon' s detonator wouldn' t work .
that was the plan .
come on .
we gotta go .
i brought a secondary detonator in case there was a frequency jam .
let' s go .
can we take a break , please ?
just for a minute ?
i have no desire to blow your head off , but i will unless you tell me where sydney bristow is .
the federal building on moorpark .
what' s the plan ?
there' s a safe house half a mile away .
when are they transferring her ?
what time ?
5 : 30 .
that was the plan .
just so we' re clear .
you report this conversation , and you' il never wear a hat again .
i got it .
no worries .
i got it .
we need a list of people who are aware of your double agent status .
it' s a short list .
besides the cla , only my father knows .
you' ve never told anyone else ?
no .
after what happened to danny ,
i thought it might be a good idea to keep my mouth shut .
i' m gonna call the bank .
i' m gonna quit for you .
my job might seem pointless and stupid , but it' s not .
and if you even knew what i dealt with every day , you might thank me for doing my job so well .
what the hell are you talking about ?
nothing .
i' m going to work .
you have a hard time keeping secrets ?
no , i don' t have a hard time keeping a secret .
what i don' t enjoy is lying to my friends or being in a constant state of jet lag from flying to far corners of the world for a man that i wish were dead .
sloane .
yes , sloane .
how often does sd 6 send you on operations ?
tell me why we' re all gluttons for pain  the girl is totally insane  she doesn' t know the meaning of tame  still , i can' t put out the flame  hey , hey , i wanna play  on the team that you despise  every day , a new disguise  every night , a halloween  she says , " keep the motor runnin ' , man "  like i was some machine  and you can talk , talk , but i' m keeping her stock  i wouldn' t even change a thing  why fight ?  you' ve got me roped and tied  i hit your baited line , i' m so diggin ' your scene  i said you' re playin ' with my head  i could split instead , i' m so diggin ' your scene
i keep busy .
what does sd 6 want ?
what is their priority ?
at the moment , it' s rambaldi .
what can you tell me about him ?
milo rambaldi was pope alexander vl' s chief architect .
he was an artist and inventor .
his designs were so technologically advanced that , at the time , they thought he was a heretic , and he was executed .
now , 500 years later , many believe he was a prophet .
and sd 6 , cla , gru , k directorate .
the entire intelligence world is on a rambaldi scavenger hunt .
why ?
they assume that rambaldi had some sort of master plan , which was recently confirmed following my trip to argentina .
in that book ,
rambaldi refers to a single construction .
the agencies don' t know what it is yet , but they' re all afraid the other guy' s gonna get it first .
i just have one more question .
do you believe rambaldi was a prophet ?
do you ?
you' re not gonna let me go , are you ?
we' re done for today .
don' t move !
get down !
down !
on the ground !
don' t move !
you !
come with us !
go , go !
go , go !
we' ve got a silver van , california license plate 4 ...
you' re gonna be okay .
what the hell are you doing ?
proving this prophecy is not about you .
we' il explain everything when we get there .
dad ?
hey , honey .
if the fbi takes this prophecy seriously , the key to your innocence will be in the second paragraph .
rambaldi wrote that the woman in that picture will have never seen mt .
subasio .
the fbi would have kept you in custody for months .
sd 6 would have investigated and found out the truth .
going to mt .
subasio should give them the proof they need .
the fbi might have let me go .
this makes them certain i' m guilty .
escaping from federal custody and crossing the border proves that i' ve acted in opposition to the government .
it was either do nothing and get killed by sd 6 or take a risk to protect your cover .
i' m a fugitive from justice .
not for long .
once you get to italy , we' il alert all agencies of our actions and your location .
they' il extract you , and you' il no longer be a suspect .
you don' t know that .
we will have protected a vital cla asset .
you .
fbl' s not gonna want to make a big deal out of this .
they can' t afford the press .
i' m gonna take you to the jet .
you have to get in the trunk .
what if the fbi was right ?
what if rambaldi was right ?
what if he was talking about me ?
then everything' s predetermined .
nothing we do makes any difference .
if rambaldi' s right , there' s nothing to lose .
seriously , guys , cops are everywhere .
when you get to italy , contact me .
so we can speak .
alan , it' s steven .
i need to tell you something that happened today .
no , i' m not okay , actually .
i did a stupid thing , and i' il take full responsibility for it .
jack bristow came to see me earlier .
i told him about sydney' s transfer time .
when ?
are you all right ?
you didn' t think about it , not once , the possibility that rambaldi could be right about me .
no , i didn' t .
why not ?
i believe in you .
did you think i' d just throw anyone in my trunk ?
i just checked with transportation .
four vehicles were taken out .
i have their makes and license plates .
you' re gonna take that car to dozer field .
there' s a jet waiting to take you to italy .
be careful .
you too .
the lapd is in pursuit ...
every day there' s another one of these .
they' re so stupid .
why doesn' t the guy just give up ?
it' s not like he can escape .
he' s stupid .
switch your engine off now !
look at that guy .
this is the part where he gets out of his car and surrenders .
turn off the engine and step away from the vehicle now !
get your hands up !
get your hands where we can see them !
oh , my god .
it' s me .
sydney , where are you ?
i need to see you now .
what happened to you ?
that plane is ready to take you to italy .
you need to go now .
i know .
but i needed to see you first .
dad , i just drove a car into the ocean .
i knew the police were waiting for me .
i used the air from the tires .
i was underwater for 10 minutes before i started to swim .
and as that car started to fill with water ,
i knew what my mother had done in the same situation .
dad , she could have planned that accident .
it makes sense .
she was deceitful .
she was cruel , ruthless .
and in rambaldi' s prophecy he uses details ,
like that dna sequencing .
dad , i inherited that .
i mean , it' s either mom or me .
i know it' s not me .
mom' s alive .
i know it .
