ladies and gentlemen , the driving force behind catholicism wow ! , cardinal glick .
thank you .
now we all know how the majority ... and the media in this country ... view the catholic church .
they think of us as a pass , archaic institution .
people find the bible obtuse ... even hokey .
now , in an effort to disprove all that ... the church has appointed this year as a time of renewal ... both of faith and of style .
for example , the crucifix .
while it has been a time honored symbol of our faith ...
holy mother church has decided to retire ... this highly recognizable ... yet wholy depressing image ... of our lord , crucified .
christ didnt come to earth to give us the willies .
he came to help us out .
he was a booster , and its with that take on our lord in mind ... that weve come up with a new , more inspiring sigil .
so , it is with great pleasure that i present you with the first ... of many revamps the catholicism wow ! campaign ... will unveil over the next year , i give you ...
the buddy christ .
thats not the sanctioned term were using for the symbol .
just something weve been kicking around the office .
but look at it .
doesnt it pop ?
buddy christ .
well , there you have it .
let me get this straight .
you dont believe in god because of alice in wonderland ?
no , through the looking glass .
that poem , " the walrus and the carpenter " ... thats an indictment of organized religion .
the walrus , with his girth and his good nature ... he obviously represents either buddha ... or with his tusks , the hindu elephant god , lord ganesha .
that takes care of your eastern religions .
now , the carpenter , which is an obvious reference to jesus christ ... who was raised a carpenters son , he represents the western religions .
now , in the poem , what do they do ?
they dupe all these oysters into following them ... and then proceed to shuck and devour the helpless creatures en masse .
i dont know what that says toyou , but to me it says ... that following these faiths based on mythological figures ... ensures the destruction ofones inner being .
organized religion destroys who we are ... by inhibiting our actions , by inhibiting our decisions ... out of fear of some intangible parent figure ... who shakes a finger at us from thousands of years ago ... and says , " do it do it and lil fuckin spank you !
oh, jesus !
the way you put it , lve never really thought about it like that before .
what have i been doing with my life ?
what am l ?
yeah , i know .
listen , my advice to you ... you take this money that youve been collecting for your parish ... go get yourself a nice dress , fix yourself up .
find some man find some woman you can connect with , even for a moment ... cause thats really all life is , sister a series of moments .
why dont you seize yours ?
that a girl .
you know , heres what i dont get about you .
you know for a fact that there is a god .
youve been in his presence .
hes spoken to you personally .
yet i heard you claim to be atheist .
i like to fuck with the clergy , man .
i just love it .
i love to keep those guys on their toes .
heres what i dont get about you .
why do you feel the need to come to this place all the time ?
my friend , because this is humanity at its best .
look at them .
all that anger , all that mistrust , all that unhappiness ... forgotten for that one perfect moment when they get off the plane .
see those two ?
what that guy doesnt know is that the girl cheated on him while she was away .
she did ?
twice .
nice .
but it doesnt matter right now ... cause theyre just both so relieved to be with one another .
i like that .
i wish they all could feel that way more often .
is this why i had to come down here and miss my fucking cartoons ?
you call me , you tell me its important .
what , to share in your half assed obsession with hallmark moments ?
were going home .
somebody sent us this in the mail .
take it and quit leering at me .
people will think i just broke up with you .
you said were going home , didnt you ?
read .
cardinal glick cuts ribbon on catholicism wow !
campaign .
and ?
you have to keep reading .
the rededication of st. michaels church ... " ... is the kick off of a new campaign which seeks to bring ...
catholicism into the mainstream .
with a papal sanction , the arch way entrance ... of the century old jersey shore house of worship ... will serve as a passage way of plenary indulgence a little known catholic belief offering all that passes throug hits arches ... a morally cleans late .
for sunday news brief , lm grant hicks .
all i gotta do , i walk through the arch thing , and then i can go back home ?
no .
by walking through the archway , all your sins are forgiven .
then all we have to do is die .
die ?
i dont wanna die .
you rather hang around here ?
no .
we dont know if we can die .
but what if we can and then the arch thing doesnt work ?
what then , hell ?
fuck that .
its impossible .
if we cut off our wings ... and transubstantiate to complete human form , we become mortal .
if we die with clean souls , theres no way they can keep us out .
we wont be angels anymore , but at least we get to go home .
who sent the paper ?
who cares who sent the paper ?
all that matters is that after all these years , we found a loop hole .
he cant keep us out anymore .
once were back in , itil be forgive and forget .
but this thing , this is church law .
its not divine mandate .
church laws are fallible because theyre created by man .
one of the last sacred promises imparted to peter , the first pope ... by the son of god before he left was ...
" whatever you hold true on earth " " lil hold true in heaven .
its dogmatic law .
if the church says its so , god must adhere .
this thing has a papal sanction
let it never be said your anal retentive attention to detail ... never yielded positive results .
you cant be anal retentive ifyou dont have an anus .
outstanding work !
theresjust one thing i think we gotta do before we leave .
this is gonna help us get back on his good side .
what ?
here .
ive been dreaming about this for five years .
read that . " mooby , the golden calf .
creating an empire out of simplicity .
i wanna hit em .
you really are just a simple creature .
we finally find a way back and you want to jeopardize that ... because youve got a soft spot for the good old days .
what betterway to repent than by resuming the position i once denied ... thanks to you ?
i dont think a killing spree is gonna make things better for us .
killing spree ?
lm talking about divine justice here .
im talking about reigning down fire and brimstone , punishing the wicked .
hes all about that .
i know hed want this done .
there hasnt been an angel of death sinceyou quit .
doesnt that mean anything to you ?
and besides , what if youre wrong , like you always are ?
if im wrong which lm not its not gonna matter .
were gonna pass through your arch thing anyway .
were gonna be forgiven .
no harm , no foul .
well , he does hate competition .
i will say that .
and your mooby certainly falls under that heading .
where is this church we have to go to ?
new jersey .
rededication ceremony is in four days .
last four days on earth ?
ifl had a dick , ld go get laid .
we can do the next best thing .
whats that ?
lets kill people .
oh , not you .
the greater illinois chapter of the right to life foundation ... will be holding its biannual softball game ... against the cook county ...
pro choice league next sunday at 2 : 00 .
todays second collection will be donated ... to the john doe jersey life fund .
for those of you who havent been following the news ... an unidentified homeless man ... who was accosted and severely beaten at the newjersey shore last tuesday ... ies in critical , but stable condition in one of that areas hospitals .
he lacks identification ... and police have had no luck tracking down any possible family .
the archbishop ofthe trenton diocese has disputed the states decision ... to remove the indigent man from life support systems ... asking that catholics all over the country ... join in this protest against euthanasia .
well , now please rise for the recession offaith .
we believe in one god , the fatheralmighty ...
maker of heaven and earth .
webelieveinjesus christ , his only son , our lord
choose life !
youre gonna burn in hell , ya fuckin baby killer !
holy shit .
its the pope .
huh ?
where ?
what areyou talking about ?
jesus !
youre a catholic .
cantyou talk to them ?
they hate me more than you , no doubt .
at least you have an excuse .
youre jewish .
you dont know any better .
we already used that excuse when we killed christ .
where were you yesterday ?
we went to brunch .
i went to church .
that still kills me , you and church .
if only they knew your weekly tithing came from a planned parenthood check .
i dont know why i still go , liz .
i can remember going to church when i was young and being moved .
now i sit there every sunday and i feel nothing .
i dont think i have any faith left .
remember that seminary student i tried to set you up with ?
the 20 year old .
the one i could have baby sat for in high school .
the point is , he told me something .
he said that faith is like a glass of water .
when youreyoung , the glass is little , so its easy to fill .
as you get older , the glass gets bigger .
the same amount of liquid doesnt fill it anymore .
but periodically the glass has to be refilled .
youre suggesting i need to get filled ?
in more ways than one .
you need to get laid , bethany sloane .
you need a man , if only for 10 minutes .
its been my experience that the average male is never a man ... not even for ten minutes in his entire life span .
that sounds militant .
areyou thinking of joining the other side ?
couldnt do it .
women are insane .
then you need to go back to church and ask god for a third option .
i think god is dead .
the sign of a true catholic .
good afternoon , mrs. reynolds .
im from the epa .
were checking on possible freon leaks .
tell me , doyou have air conditioning ?
yes , we have central air .
in every room ?
except the bathroom .
why ?
well , you do know what that means , dontyou ?
move !
no pleasure , no rapture , no exquisite sin greater ... than central air .
pick that up .
this will be the base of operations from here on in .
now , ifl remember the protocol correctly ... the powers ... will attempt to contact the last scion .
i need you three ... to shuffle her loose the mortal coil .
go .
behold the metatron !
herald ofthe almighty and voice ofthe one true god !
behold the metatron !
herald ofthe almighty and voice ofthe one true god !
sweet jesus !
doyou have to use the whole can ?
who the fuck areyou and what the fuck areyou doing in my room ?
im the one thats soaked and shes the one thats surly .
thats rich .
stupid fucking
get the fuck out of here , now !
or youil do what exactly ?
hit me with that fish ?
now, just sit down on the bed and shut up .
jesus wept !
look at my suit .
just take whatever you want , but dont kill or rape me .
give over !
i couldnt rape you ifl wanted to .
angels are il equipped .
see ?
im as anatomically impaired as a ken doll .
make yourself useful and give me that towel .
you bottom feeders and your arrogance .
you think everybodysjust trying to get in your knickers .
what are you ?
im pissed off is what i am .
do you drench everyone who comes in your room with flame retardant chemicals ?
no wonder youre single .
stand back .
as i was sayin ... prior toyour fire fighting episode ...
i am the metatron .
dont tell me the name doesnt ring a bell ?
you people .
if there isnt a movie about it , its not worth knowing , is it ?
i am a seraphim .
the highest choir ofangels .
you do know what an angel is , dontyou ?
metatron acts as the voice of god .
any documented occasion when some yahoo claims that god has spoken to them ... theyre speaking to me .
or theyre talking to themselves .
why doesnt god speak for himself ?
glad you decided tojoin the conversation .
to answer that ... human beings have neither the aural , nor the psychological capacity ... to with stand the awesome power ofgods true voice .
wereyou to hear it , your mind would cave in and your heart would explode .
we went through five adams before we figured that one out .
well , how do i know youre an angel ?
aside from the fiery entrance and the expansive wing span ?
you want more proof ?
fine .
how about tequila ?
where the hell are we ?
only place you can go for good tequila .
dos tequilas , por favor , and an empty glass .
were in mexico ?
actually , were in a franchised mexican family eatery ... down the street from your apartment , but ... its impressive nonetheless .
you dont mind i lost the wings , doyou ?
lm trying to keep our profile low .
what do you want with me ?
i am to charge you with a holy crusade .
for the record , i work in an abortion clinic .
noah was a drunk .
lookwhat he accomplished .
and no ones asking you to build an ark .
all you gotta do is go to new jersey ... and visit a small church on a very important day .
newjersey ?
that doesnt sound like much of a crusade .
aside from the fine print , thats it .
whats the fine print ?
stop a couple of angels from entering and thus negating all existence .
wait , wait , wait .
repeat that .
stop a couple of angels from entering ... and thus negating all existence .
i hate it when people need it spelled out for them .
you might want to clarify that .
back in the old days , god was vengeful and hot tempered .
and his wrath was bore ... by the angel of death , name of loki .
when sodom and gomorrah was destroyed ... that was loki .
when the waters wiped out everything except noah and his menagerie ... that was loki and he was good at what he did .
but one day ... he refused to bear gods wrath any longer .
why ?
he listened to his friend ... a grigori by the name of bartleby .
grigori ?
one ofthe choirs of angels .
theyre called watchers .
guess what they do .
so one day , lokis wiping out all the first born of egypt
the tenth plague .
tell a person that youre the metatron and they stare at you blankly .
mention something out of a charlton heston movie ... and suddenly everybodys a theology scholar .
may i continue uninterrupted ?
once hes done with the first born ...
loki takes his friend bartleby out for a post slaughter drink .
and over many rounds ... they get into this discussion about ... whether or not murder in the name of god is okay .
and in the end ...
bartleby convinces loki to quit his position ... and take one which doesnt involve slaughter .
so ... very inebriated ...
loki tells god he quits ... throws down his fiery sword ... and gives him the finger .
which ruins it for the rest of us because from that day forward ...
god decreed that angels could no longer imbibe alcohol .
hence all the spitting .
so , for their insolence ...
god decreed that neither loki nor bartleby ... would ever be allowed back into paradise .
were they sent to hell ?
worse .
wisconsin ... for the entire span of human history .
and when the world ends , theyil have to sit outside the gates for all eternity .
and this has what to do with me ?
someone has clued them in to a loop hole in catholic dogma ... that would allow them to reenter heaven .
so what ?
they beat the system .
good for them .
its not that simple .
if they get in , they will have reversed gods decree .
now listen closely because this bits very important .
existence in all its form and splendor ... function solely on one principle
god is infallible .
to prove him wrong ... would undo reality and everything that is .
up would become down , blackwould become white .
existence would become nothingness .
in essence ... if theyre allowed to enter that church ... theyil unmake the world .
if this is so major , why are you talking to me ?
why doesnt god do something about it ?
he could .
but hed rather see you take care of this one personally .
why me ?
because of who you are .
and who am l ?
the girl in the pjs !
dont ask so many questions .
just serve your purpose .
im gonna have to pass .
i beg your pardon ?
when some quiet little infection destroyed my uterus , where was god ?
when my husband decided ... he couldnt be with a wife who couldnt bear his children ... where was god ?
to hell with him .
dont allow eons of history and life to get blinked out of being ... just because youve got a grudge against your creator .
so you lost the ability to make life .
youre being offered the chance to play mother to the world ... by acting like one and protecting it saving it !
but i cant makeyou .
however , ifyou should decide to stop being selfish ... and accept your responsibility ... you wont be alone .
youil have support .
what ?
more angels ?
prophets .
in a manner of speaking .
two ofem .
the one who speaks ... and he will , at great length , whether you want him to or not ... will make mention of himself as a prophet .
the other one ... well , hes the quiet type .
look , lve gotta go .
remember , were working in a time frame here .
whats he like ?
god ?
lonely ... but funny .
hes got a great sense ofhumor .
take sex , for example .
theres nothing funnier ... than the ridiculous faces you people make mid coitus .
sex is a joke in heaven ?
the way i understand it , its mostly a joke down here too .
iil see ya .
snootch to the motherfucking nootch !
go back to your paper routes , you mighty duck fucks !
snoogans .
did you see that shit , man ?
i know they were just kids , but we kicked their fucking pube less asses !
i dont know what to say or think , except
that youil offer us sex as a reward ?
that ld like to know who they and you are .
im jay , and this is my hetero life mate , silent bob .
i dont know who those kids were , but they would have kicked yours ... and lunchboxs asses ifl hadnt represented .
thanks for being out here so late .
wait a minute .
are you protestors ?
you mean those dick heads with the signs and pictures of dead babies ?
shit no !
me and silent bob are pro choice .
a womans body is her own fucking business .
but what are you doing hanging around ?
were here to pick up chicks .
excuse me ?
we figure abortion clinics are a good place to meet loose women .
why else would they be here unless they like to fuck ?
right .
well , i should be going .
thanks for the rescue .
i think .
wait a second .
we just saved your ass , and yourejust gonna take off .
what the shit is that ?
i had a weird night last night and tonights not shaping up to be better .
i think i should go home , take some perco sets and lay down .
now how about that shit ?
fuck this town , man !
im goin back to jersey and startin up the business again .
i can kick the shit out of kids in red bank and make myself a profit .
prophets .
two ofem .
you know what lm sayin , silent bob ?
you gotta be kidding me .
we call this piece " the fecalator .
one look at it and the target shits him or herself .
try it on .
its a lot more compact than the flaming sword , but not nearly as impressive .
it doesnt have that " wrath ofthe almighty " edge to it .
how am i supposed to strike fear into hearts ofthe wicked with this thing ?
look at this .
well , then , you know , dont use a gun .
lay the place to waste like .
easy foryou to say .
you get off light in a razing .
you got to stand there and read at sodom and gomorrah .
i had to do all the work .
what work did you do ?
you lit a few fires .
i rained down sulfur .
theres a subtle difference .
okay , lm sure .
fuckyou .
any moron with a pack of matches can set a fire .
raining down sulfur is like an endurance trial .
mass genocide is the most exhausting activity one can engage in ... next to soccer .
iil take this one .
so , whats up ?
you have a friend for silent bob , or areyou gonna do us both ?
ifso , lm first .
i hate sloppy seconds .
youre a man of principle .
jerseys pretty far from mchenry .
may i ask what brought you here ?
some fuck named john hughes .
sixteen candles john hughes ?
you know that guy too ?
that fuckin guy .
he made this flick sixteen candles .
not bad .
theres tits in it , but no bush .
but ebert over here dont give a shit about that kind of thing ... because hes like in love with this john hughes guy .
he goes out and rents every one of his movies .
fuckin breakfast club , where stupid kids actually show up for detention .
fuckin weirdscience , where this babe wants to undress and get down ... but , oh , no , she dont , because its a pg movie .
and then prettyin pink , which i cant watch with this tubby bitch anymore ... because when the redhead hooks up with her dream guy ... he starts sobbin like a little bitch with a skinned knee and shit .
and theres nothing worse than watchin a fuckin fat man weep .
what exactly brought you to illinois ?
all these movies take place in this small town called shermer , illinois ... where all the honeys are top shelf but all the dudes are whiny pussies .
except for judd nelson .
he was fuckin harsh .
but best of all ... there was no one dealin , man .
then it hits me .
we could live like phat rats ... if we were the blunt connection in shermer , illinois .
so we collected some money we were owed and caught a bus .
but you know what the fuck we found out when we got there ?
there is no shermer , illinois .
movies are fuckin bullshit .
when are you going back to newjersey ?
this broad asks a lot ofquestions .
tomorrow .
tomorrow .
yeah .
so you do anal ?
is it true that chicks fart if you blast them in the ass ?
i didnt ask you out for sex .
iil take head .
this is gonna sound really bad .
i cant believe lm even thinking about this .
i think i should go with you .
like steady ?
you wanna be my girlfriend ?
all right , but silent bob gets to live with us and you pay the rent .
no .
i wanna go with you to newjersey .
really ?
youre going to lead me somewhere .
me lead you ?
lady , look at me .
i dont even know where i am half the time .
if were not gonna fuck , then what the fuck did you ask us out for ?
someone told me ld meet you and youd take me someplace i was supposed to go .
what the hell are you babbling about ?
we saved your ass from some angry fuckin dwarves ... and now were supposed to take you somewhere as if we know where it is ?
do you believe in god ?
holy fuck !
all the fine , immoral bitches out in front of that place ... and we gotta get the onejesus freak ?
lets get the fuck out ofhere .
wait .
iil scream rape .
i can payyou .
pay ?
a hundred bucks for being my guide .
you were going tojersey anyway .
all lm asking is to tag along .
i feel like han solo , youre chewie , and shes ben kenobi ... and were in that fucked up bar !
what about sex ?
no sex .
lets say were caught in a situation where we have five minutes left to live .
a bomb or somethings gonna go off .
would you fuck us then ?
in that highly unlikely situation ?
yeah , sure .
shes a slut .
all right .
but i get to drive .
what gear are you in ?
gear ?
what do i know about shiftin ?
like i ever drove before .
indiana , ohio , pennsylvania ...
newjersey .
maybe youre wrong about this slaughter thing .
how can you be sure what incurs the lords wrath these days ?
times change .
i remember eating meat on a friday used to be a hell worthy trespass .
the major sins never change .
besides , i can spot a commandment breaker from a mile away .
bet on it .
this from the guy who still owes me ten bucks over that bet ... about which was gonna be the bigger movie et or krush groove .
fuck you , man , cause times gonna tell on that one .
are you insinuating that i dont have what it takes anymore ?
insinuating , no .
flat out telling you .
right there .
theres one .
so ?
theyre kissing .
adultery .
adultery ?
adultery .
you are just a simple creature .
am i right ?
i happen to know the truth .
im not gonna tell you .
i want to see how boned up on the job you are .
whats your proof ?
hes wearing a wedding band .
and it never occurred toyou that maybe shes his wife ?
no married man kisses his wife like that .
okay .
its a good thing you were never ... the deciding member on ajury is all lm saying . " no married man kisses his wife like that " ?
are you stoned ?
excuse me .
are you married ?
why ?
im just curious .
what do you think ?
what ?
to her ?
what ?
areyou married to her ?
not that its any of your fucking business , but no .
why ?
whosehouse
runshouse
isaid , whosehouse
runshouse
whosehouse say what
runshouse say what
martin
shes fuckin pissed , dude .
shes never gonna fuck us now .
maybe you , but definitely not me .
let me know how she is .
nobody is fucking me !
you got that ?
i dont know what i was thinking in that diner ... but being that lve decided to go home , and not to newjersey ... sorry for the inconvenience and good bye .
youre breaking up with us ?
who the hell do you think you are , lady ?
you cant just go around breaking peoples hearts like that !
i fell in love with you !
we fell in love with you !
guys like us just dont fall out ofthe fuckin sky .
beautiful , naked , big tittied women just dont fall out of the sky .
no heartbeat .
think someone threw him out of a plane with a message written on him ...
iike in conair ?
did you ever see that flick ?
oh , did that suck !
conair ?
con shit .
kill it !
sounds familiar .
jesus , are you okay ?
yeah , its rufus .
and yeah , lm fine .
hes the fucking undead !
cut his head off ! .
what i just did gave me a fucking migraine !
so if you dont pipe down , lm gonna yank your sac off like a paper towel .
speaking of which , youre awfully nude .
rufus , is it ?
yes , rufus it is .
its usually long rufus , but its a little cold out here .
you understand ?
big papa , how about lending a brother your coat till i find my own threads ?
dude , he fell out of thin air .
dude , his piece is gonna be rubbing inside ofyour armor .
dude !
thanks a lot , baby .
iil do my best to tuck it back .
its been a while since physics but i would think ... the impact with which you hit the asphalt would have liquefied you .
death is a worry of the living .
the dead , like myself , only worry about decay and necrophiliacs .
told you he was the undead .
not the undead .
the dead .
i died .
christ told me the secret to the resurrection once .
we were at this wedding in caanan .
i got drunk and forgot it .
wait , wait , wait .
christ ?
you knew christ ?
knew him ?
shit , nigga owes me 12 bucks .
let me guess .
youre another angel ?
oh , i aint no angel .
im a man, just like you and him .
well , maybe not him .
at least i was a man .
been dead nearly 2, 000 years .
here , check this out .
no wonder he saw jesus .
homeys rockin the ganj .
its not a joint .
i cant read this .
its aramaic .
it says , " rufus , seeyou in twoyears . jesus .
freaked me out because he basically told me when my number was up .
took all the flavor out of the remaining years .
we gotta get moving .
lets saywe continue this discussion over a two piece and a biscuit .
come on .
im starvin .
back off , kato .
wait a second !
between guys with wings , guys falling out of the sky ... and guys trying like hell to fuck me ...
i think lve been a pretty good sport about all this so far .
but lm not going anywhere until i find out where the hell you came from .
me ?
i came from heaven .
now lets start walkin .
walk ?
fuck you !
do you know how far we are from anywheres ?
hey , man , back in the old days withj . c. , we used to walk everywhere .
did you ever hear of a fat apostle ?
what the hells an apostle ?
let me get this straight .
shes already met the prophets ... and the apostles with them ?
i think that our best course of action ... is to ensure that our parcel is not found .
and being that i cant even trust you enough to kill a woman ... well , lm left with no choice ... but to seek outside assistance in guarding said package .
im gonna have to summon the golgothan .
i appreciate the loan , brother .
you can have that back .
man , i remember when all we used to have for breakfast was fish and goats milk .
what doyou call this shit ?
egga mooby muffin .
now , how bout you start explaining some things , like for starters ... how did you know where to find us ?
do you know what the dead do with most of their time ?
watch the living .
especially in the shower .
i cant wait to die .
and why areyou watching me ?
because youre the one whos gonna help me get some changes made ... in that book you put so much stock in .
hustler ?
the bible !
whats your beefwith the bible ?
for starters , lm not in it .
neither are any of us , but you dont hear us bitchin and moanin .
but lm supposed to be in it .
i was the 13th apostle .
ive gone to church my whole life and never heard of rufus , the 13th apostle .
but you heard of the other 12 apostles .
they were all white boys , i might add .
but no mention of me , rufus .
and why is that ? cause lm a black man .
butyou know what ?
thats just my pet peeve .
im mainly here to correct a major error youve been basing your faith on .
whats that ?
jesus wasnt white . jesus was black .
i dont buy it .
if thats true , why did he get written about and you were left out ?
well , he is the son ofgod .
kind of hard to have a new testament without him .
so you fudge a few facts , you put a spin on his ethnicity .
leaving me out is okay cause you still got 1 2 white boys to choose from .
areyou gonna listen to this shit ?
thats what people of antioch said ... right before they stoned my ass .
you were martyred ?
thats one way of puttin it .
anotherway is to say i was bludgeoned to shit by big fucking rocks .
white folks only wanna hear the good shit
iife eternal , a place in gods heaven .
but as soon as you hear that youre gettin this good shit ... from a black jesus , ya freak .
and that , my friends , is called hypocrisy .
a black man can steal your stereo , but he cant beyour savior .
you gonna eat that hash brown ?
so , you went to heaven ?
damn right i went to heaven !
thats the least he could do .
in the three years i followed his ass around jerusalem , did i ever get laid ?
hell no .
and i was in my prime .
i could have been knee deep in shepherds daughters ... not to mention fine ass mary magdalene .
she had a thing for dark meat , if you follow me .
maybe this is just me talking , but ifl were in heaven ...
i wouldnt care what the bible said as long as they got the message right .
the message is what counts .
but folks who build their faith on that message should be color blind .
and all my rabble rousing is not doing that much above .
so lm gonna need some help down here .
thats why lm gonna help you stop those angels from gettin into that church ... in exchange foryou helping me with my campaign .
how do you know about that , the angels ?
isnt much i dont know about you .
i find that hard to believe .
when you were five , you let a kid from next door piss on your hand .
you did that shit ?
youre nasty .
i never told anybody about that .
neither did he .
two years later , that kid died of leukemia .
his name was brian johnson .
your exploits , no matter how inane ... are well documented in heaven .
probably hell too .
where are you going ?
tell me somethin about me .
you masturbate more than anyone on the planet .
fuck .
everyone knows that .
tell me something nobody knows .
when you do it , youre thinking about guys .
dude , not all the time .
sorry ifl scared you .
two thirds ofme wants to forget about this and go home .
yesterday , i wasnt sure god even existed .
now lm up to my ass in christian mythology .
let me let you in on a little inside info .
god hates it when its referred to as " mythology .
oh , well , then lets ask the " prophets " what we should call it instead .
where did those two assholes go ?
what are you doing ?
proving to this bastard i aint gay .
what ?
long story .
forget it .
we gotta get movin .
how can we get to jersey ?
weil take the train .
iil call for reservations .
i thought she looked familiar .
who ?
serendipity .
morning , shoppers .
good morning .
has anyone seen the overnights ?
no , sir .
we creamed em .
last night was a rerun , which says to me
do i smell onions ?
excuse me .
may i ask what youre doing in my boardroom ?
you may proceed , monami .
im gonna have to start by apologizing .
my friend has a bit of a penchant for the dramatic .
oh , come on !
relax .
im doing it .
mooby , the golden calf .
created by nancy goldruff , a former kindergarten teacher in 1 989 .
bought by the complex corporation in 1 991 .
broadcast nationally as the " mooby fun time hour .
since its inception , has spawned two theatrical films ... 16 records , 8 prime time specials ... and a library of priced to own videocassettes .
not to mention bicoastal theme parks ... dubbed " mooby world .
did i miss anything ?
you forgot mooby magazine .
damn it !
is there a point to this ?
you and your board are idolaters .
i cant believe you forgot the magazine .
thats you .
doyou know much about voodoo ?
thats a fascinating practice .
no real doctrine of faith to speak of .
more an arrangement of superstitions ... the most well known ofwhich ... is the voodoo doll .
you see ...
a mockup ofan individual is subjected ... to various pokes and prods .
the desired result is that the individual will feel those effects .
call security , now !
all lines are currently down .
im gonna have to apologize  would you knock it off ?
youre doing it again .
stop .
what did we talk about ?
you are responsible for raising an icon ... which draws worship from the lord .
you have broken the first commandment .
more than that , lm afraid not a one ofyou ... passes for a decent human being .
your continued existence is a mockery ofmorality .
like you , mr. burton .
last year , you cheated on yourwife of 1 7 years 8 times .
you even had sex with her best friend ... while you were supposed to be home watching the kids .
in the bed thatyou and your wife share , no less .
mr. newman .
you gotyour girlfriend drunk at lastyears christmas party ... and then paid a kid from the mail room ... to have sex with her while she was passed out ... just so you could break up with her guilt free ... when she sobbingly confessed in the morning .
she killed herself three months later .
mr. brace disowned his gay son .
very compassionate .
mr. ray put his mother in a third rate nursing home ... and used the profits from the sale ofher home ... to buy an oriental rug for himself .
heavens .
mr. barker flew to thailand on the company account ... to have sex with an eleven year old boy .
mr. holtzman okayed the production of mooby dolls ... from materials he knew to be toxic and unsafe ... because it was survey says
iess costly .
you , on the other hand ... are an innocent .
you lead a good life .
good for you .
but you , mr. whitland ... you have more skeletons in your closet ... than this assembled party .
i cannot even mention them aloud .
youre his father , you sick fuck !
good .
not bad , man .
thats great work .
very good .
well ... alone at last .
with the exception of miss pryce here ... there isnt a decent human being amongst you .
not one .
doyou know what makes a human being decent ?
fear .
and therein lies the problem .
none of you has anything left to fear anymore .
you rest comfortably in seats of inscrutable power ... hiding behind your false idol , far from judgment ... ives shrouded in secrecy , even from one another .
but not from god .
forgot my little voodoo doll .
man , it really looks just likeyou , doesnt it ?
look , if i believed enough in this ...
i wonder
come on .
i dont believe in voodoo .
voodoo .
but i do believe in this .
dont run !
dont run !
fakes !
fakes !
all of you , fakes !
but i do believe in this .
what does that mean ?
and one to grow on .
gum ?
go on .
its okay .
youve done nothing wrong .
these guys were fakes .
youre a pure soul .
butyou didnt say " god bless you " when i sneezed .
loki !
youre getting off light .
loki !
i know .
im comin .
youre so lucky .
i forgot you were down here .
how long now ?
three years this august .
let me guess the 1 4th apostle , left out ofthe bible because shes a woman ?
this girls no woman .
oh .
those werent tits i saw jay cozying up to ?
what , these ?
you should know better than anyone here that tits dont make a woman .
hell , the tubby , coat wearing motherfuckers got tits .
what traditionally defines a woman falls between two things her legs .
but as you can see ...
i lack definition .
hey , theyre gettin a free show !
let me see that shit !
oh , god , another angel like metatron .
how doyou how does she know metatron ?
this is the last scion .
youre kidding .
wow .
im confused .
bethany , serendipity here isnt technically an angel .
nor is she , by any means , a human being like i was and you are .
i used to be an abstract .
now lm really confused .
im a muse , stupid .
i cant take much more ofthis .
so you , what , inspire people ?
whatjust went down with your friends over there
it doesnt really take a muse to inspire horny retards to empty their wallets .
i used to specialize in entertainment .
for example , lm responsible for 1 9 of the 20 top grossing films ofall time .
nineteen ?
yeah .
the one about the kid by himselfin his house ... burglars trying to come in and he fights them off
i had nothing to do with that one .
somebody sold their soul to satan to get the grosses up on that piece of shit .
what are you doing stripping ?
remember why i left ?
because you were tired of getting none of the credit for your ideas .
so i opted to quit being a muse and write for myself .
i gave my two weeks notice , got a body , 50 bucks ... and got sent out into the world to make my fortune .
so what happened ?
writers block .
can you believe it ?
me , a muse , for gods sake .
i can inspire anyone i meet and give out a zillion and nine ideas a second ... but i cant keep any for myself .
her quirky sense ofhumor .
whose ?
gods .
youre saying gods a woman ?
was there ever a doubt in your mind ?
hes always referred to as " him .
thats not how i wrote it .
but one of the drawbacks to being intangible ... is that you have no say in the editorial process .
the people that held the pens added their own perspective ... and all the penholders were men .
so she became a he .
doesnt stop with god either .
the whole books gender biased .
a womans responsible for original sin .
a woman cuts samson coif of power .
a woman asks for the head ofjohn the baptist .
read that book again .
women are painted as bigger antagonists than the egyptians and romans combined .
it stinks .
why is the last scion here ?
bartleby and loki .
they found a way back .
not the plenary indulgence loop hole .
you know about that ?
i always knew that thing was a bad idea .
leave it to the catholics to destroy existence .
you have issues with catholicism , i take it ?
i have issues with anyone who treats god like a burden instead of a blessing ...
iike some catholics .
you people dont celebrate your faith , you mourn it .
if were wrong , what religion is right ?
its not about whos right orwrong .
no denominations nailed it yet ... because theyre all too self righteous to realize ... that it doesnt matter what you have faith in, just that you have faith .
your hearts are in the right place , butyour brains gotta wake up .
they made me and silent bob part ofthe gang .
who fuckin farted ?
not born .
shit into existence .
sweet christ , somebody wants you bad !
what is that thing ?
an excremental .
the golgothan .
a what ?
a shit demon !
no man of woman born !
friend of yours ?
is this smelly fuck with us ?
it came for bethany !
smoke that motherfucker like it aint no thang !
i knew ls gonna whack somebody today !
get your fuckin hand back .
represent !
go !
go !
go !
looks like were in charge of the gang now .
over the bar !
where did that thing come from ?
ever heard of golgotha ?
the hill where christ was crucified .
it wasntjust christ .
the romans crucified everyone there .
christ excluded , theywere criminals killers , brigands , thieves , rapists .
whenever the crucified expired , their bodies lost muscle control ... spilling bowel and bladder in the process ... the result of which is that walking pile ofcrap the golgothan shit demon , hells chief assassin .
its here for you , girlie .
bob , get down !
matches !
matches !
hey , man .
how ?
knocks strong odors out .
way to go , biggie .
why would you ever carry this ?
what ?
whoever sent this might send more .
i suggestyou take the princess and get as far away as possible .
iil try to get something out of poopy boy here .
if he tells me something , lil let you know .
hello .
wed like two tickets to newjersey , please .
jerseys sold out , sir .
what ?
theres one at the same time tomorrow .
dont underestimate the staggering drawing power of the garden state .
show up two hours in advance .
nice .
your hard on for smiting has prevented us from negotiating ... what ought to be the relatively simple matter of catching or staying on a bus .
bus , schmuss .
why should we fall victim to gravity when we can just as easily rise above ?
you mean fly ?
we got wings , right ?
fuck , lets use em !
i wouldnt suggest that .
you see , kids ... you wouldnt want to look like a couple of fairies , now , would you ?
howd you get out of hell ?
i told them i was coming up on a routine possession .
i dont have much time .
if they figure out my ruse , theyil come after me .
whats with bringing us in here ?
you two are inches from getting caught .
going around killing people , about to uncase your wings .
dontyou know whats going on ?
well , were going home .
really .
are you so clueless as to think you can just waltz back into heaven ?
why not ?
everybody is looking for you .
both sides .
above and below .
orders are to terminate you on sight .
really ?
why ?
because youre pissing people off , thats why .
word is that gods pissed off at your presumption ... and i know lucifers pissed because you assholes might make him look bad ... by succeeding where hes failed so many times .
so theyrejust gonna kill us ?
theyre gonna try .
thats why you have to travel incognito .
tone down your behavior .
stay off their respective radars .
quit killing people .
thats high profile .
oh , lighten up .
i cant believe they wanna kill us .
oh , believe it , boys .
theyve even got the last scion looking foryou .
really ?
youre kidding .
this is huge .
your reentry is a thorn in a lot of sides .
theyil stop at nothing to prevent it .
in the meantime , i suggest you find an alternate mode of transportation .
if anything else comes up , lil contact you .
thankyou , azrael .
youre a true friend .
i have to get back to the pit before they get suspicious .
and remember , incognito .
howyou coping , kid ?
its weird .
just when i think i have a handle on things ... something wholly unbelievable presents itself .
sometimes i wish id just stayed home .
you sound like the man .
whats he like ?
he likes to listen to people talk .
christ loved to sit around the fire , listen to me and the other guys .
whenever we were going on about unimportant shit ... he always had a smile on his face .
his only real beefwith mankind ... is the shit that gets carried out in his name .
wars , bigotry , televangelism .
the big one , though , is the factioning of all the religions .
he said mankind got it all wrong ... by taking a good idea and building a belief structure on it .
youre saying having beliefs is a bad thing ?
i just think its better to have ideas .
you can change an idea .
changing a beliefis trickier .
people die for it .
people kill for it .
the whole of existence is injeopardy right now ... because ofthe catholic belief structure regarding this plenary indulgence shit .
bartleby and loki , whether they know it or not ... are exploiting that belief ... and if theyre successful ... you , me , all of this ends in a heartbeat .
all over a belief .
i havent seen the moron twins in a while .
how aboutyou ?
one time we were at the mall , we tied tubby to the ceiling ... and he went flying through the air , fuckin crashed through the wall .
it was fucked up .
you two arent getting into any trouble , areyou ?
were just about to smoke a fatty with these two suave motherfuckers ... who just got on at the last stop larry and barry .
so, jay tells us youre gonna sleep with him .
hit this shit , man .
its good stuff .
oh , fuck .
thats some bad shit , dude .
you hit that ?
yeah , youre bad , dude .
bad shit .
why areyou heading to newjersey ?
its just this thing i have to do .
were going home .
oh .
doyou two live together ?
unfortunately , yes .
so , how long haveyou two been together ?
a while .
he can be pretty flaky sometimes , but we have a lot in common .
howd you meet ?
we were stationed together .
see , thats beautiful .
everybodys always up in arms about this " out in the military " issue .
pardon ?
you know , theres all the macho bullshit about it being " this mans army .
you two meet there , hook up
you think were lovers ?
no , no .
were not gay .
oh , god .
im sorry .
i just assumed .
do i come offas gay ?
my ex husband sort ofscrewed up my relationship awareness barometer .
youre divorced .
thats a nice way ofputting it .
i call it being dumped .
i was ... dumped once .
dontyoujust constantly question yourvalue ?
like , why was i so easy to cast aside ?
and you wonder ifthe other party is gonna come to their senses ... and call you back .
they always tell you itil hurt less with time .
when actually ... it hurts more .
you know what we need ?
what do we need ?
we need drinks .
we need a lot ofdrinks .
garcon .
you still go to church ?
every sunday .
does it do anything for you ?
it gives me time to balance my checkbook everyweek .
thats what lm saying .
people dont go to church to feel spiritual anymore .
they go to church and feel bored ... but they keep going everyweek just out ofhabit .
i am so buzzed .
when doyou think you lostyour faith ?
i remember the exact moment .
i was on the phone with my mother ... and she was trying to counsel me through this this thing .
and when nothing she was saying was making me feel any better ... she said ...
bethany ...
god has a plan .
i was i was so angrywith her .
i was like ...
what about my plans ?
you know ?
mm hmm .
i had planned to have a family ... with my husband .
wasnt that plan good enough for god ?
apparently not .
how aboutyou ?
howd you lose your faith ?
a long time ago .
one day godjust stopped listening .
i kept talking , but i got the distinct impression he wasnt listening anymore .
how did you know she was listening in the first place ?
well , i guess i dont .
i hate thoughts like that .
but , you know , they come to you with age . cause when youre a kid you never question the whole faith thing .
gods in heaven , and hes
shes always got her eye on you .
id give anything to feel that way again .
guess thats why i got talked into this pilgrimage .
where is this pilgrimage to ?
you wouldnt believe me ifl told you .
try me .
all right , but i warned you .
okay .
im going to this church in newjersey .
really .
kerwood mandel to carthree .
kerwood mandel to carthree .
see , lm supposed to stop a couple of angels ... from going into the church .
theyre trying
shit .
theyre trying to get back into heaven .
see , they got tossed out of heaven ... years ago , right ?
and ifthey get back in ... it proves god wrong ... and since god is infallible ... to prove herwrong ... would , you know , unmake existence .
may i have your attention , please .
the diningcar willbe closing in five minutes .
thank you .
i feel so stupid ... just saying it .
the thing i dont get is ... how am i supposed to stop an angel ?
two , even !
i guess lm supposed to talk them out ofit or something .
maybe youre supposed to kill them .
oh , yeah , right .
kill them .
i mean , even ifthat were the case , which its not ... how doyou kill an angel , barry ?
oh ...
i dont suppose its much different from ... killing a human .
where is everybody ?
i wake up and
the apostle .
holy shit !
rufus , i want you to meet my new friend barry .
dont be such a show off , barry .
take it easy , bartleby .
just let her go .
we can talk about this .
bartleby ?
after all this time , it comes down to slaughter by a meat puppet ?
getyour fucking hands offme , you dickless son of a bitch !
save it .
five minutes ago you were aching to top me off .
loki !
holy shit .
the apostle .
i didnt come in you , pete , i swear .
what are you doing here ?
this woman has to stop two angels from entering a church .
us ?
no , two other fucking angels .
id say theres a pretty good chance .
rufus , were to be liquidated ?
you havent thought about the consequences of your reentry .
consequences , schmonsequences .
were going home , no matterwhose pride it may hurt .
its not a matter ofpride !
loki , kill the girl .
what areyou , high ?
i cant kill her ifshe hasnt done anything .
fine .
iil kill her myself .
i fall asleep and everyone takes off ?
these guys are fuckin flat leavers .
shut his mouth .
oh , shit !
jay !
biggie !
the door !
the door !
cant we talk about this ?
why dont i just get off at the next stop !
no ticket .
the apostle is here .
i noticed .
then you know who she was , dontyou ?
the scion , i imagine !
maybe we should rethink this whole thing .
i mean , you heard the guy .
he said there are consequences .
and azrael tells us were marked ?
theres more to this than we thought of .
i was close .
you know ?
i was so close to slitting that bitchs throat .
whoa .
you know how i felt ?
righteous .
justified .
eager , even .
you all right ?
your eyes are kinda
my eyes are open .
for the first time i get it .
when that little innocent girl let her mission slip , i had an epiphany .
see , in the beginning it was just us and him angels and god .
then he created humans .
ours was designed to be a life of servitude and worship ... and bowing and scraping and adoration .
he gave them more than he ever gave us .
he gave them a choice .
they choose to acknowledge god or choose to ignore him .
all this time weve been down here ...
ive felt the absence ofthe divine presence ... and its pained me , as lm sure it must have pained you .
and why ?
because ofthe way he made us .
had we been given free will we could choose to ignore the pain , like they do .
but no , were servants .
okay .
all lm saying here is that one ofus might need a little nap .
wake up !
these humans have besmirched everything hes bestowed upon them .
theywere given paradise ; they threw it away .
theywere given this planet ; they destroyed it .
theywere favored best among all his endeavors ... and some of them dont even believe he exists !
and in spite ofit all ...
he has shown them infinite fucking patience ... at every turn .
what about us ?
i asked you once ... to lay down the sword because i felt sorry for them .
what was the result ?
our expulsion from paradise .
where was his infinite fucking patience then ?
its not right !
lts not fair !
weve paid our debt !
dontyou think its time ?
dontyou think its time we went home ?
and to do that , i thinkwe may have to dispatch our would be dispatchers .
wait .
wait , wait .
kill them ?
youre talking about the last scion , for christs sake .
and what aboutjay and bob ?
those guys were all right .
dont .
dont , my friend .
dont letyour sympathies get the best of you .
they did me once .
scion or not ... shesjust a human ... and by passing through that arch our sins are forgiven .
no harm , no foul .
my god .
ive heard a rant like this before .
what did you say ?
ive heard a rant like this before .
dontyou do that to me .
you sound like the morning star .
you shutyour fucking face !
you sound like lucifer , man !
youve fucking lost it !
youre not talking about going home , bartleby .
youre talking about fucking war on god .
well , fuck that .
i have seen what happens to the proud when they take on the throne .
im going back to wisconsin .
were going home , loki ... and no one , notyou , not even the almighty himself ... is gonna make that otherwise .
shit .
why couldnt we stay on the train ?
you threw those guys off .
very basic strategy .
if your enemies know whereyou are , then dont be there .
why are we enemies ?
well , i know ld perceive the person sent to kill me as an enemy .
what does that mean ?
since when am i supposed to kill anybody ?
im tired ofall this cryptic bullshit .
im physically and psychologically exhausted , rufus ... and lm ready to kick back and welcome the end ofexistence ... unless you come clean right now .
why me ?
out of all the people on the goddamn planet , why was i tapped ?
imagineyoure a 1 2 year old boy .
youre told youre gods only son , but more than that , youre god .
how long do you think it would take to come to grips with something that huge ?
maybe , say , 1 8 years ?
in the bible, jesus suddenly goes from age 1 2 to 30 .
1 2 to 30 .
now , thats some pretty bad storytelling .
where are the volumes of text dealing with the missing 1 8 years ?
iil tell you where .
they were offered up as a sacrifice to the god of ecumenical politics .
you make it sound like theres some church conspiracy ... to cover up " the truth about christ .
oh , bullshit .
any important material about christ ... would give people a better understanding of the nature ofgod .
why would they leave any ofit out ?
because its tied in with his family .
his mother and father .
his brothers and sisters .
jesus didnt have brothers and sisters .
mary was a virgin .
mary gave birth to christ without having known a mans touch .
this is true .
but she did have a husband .
doyou really think he wouldve stayed married to her for all those years ... ifhe wasnt gettin laid ?
the nature of god and the virgin birth , those are leaps of faith .
but to believe a married couple never got down , thats just plain gullibility .
meaning ?
the blood that flows through your veins ... shares a chromosome or two at the genetic level ... with the oneyou cali jesus .
bethany , you are ... the great great great great great great great great great great grandniece ... of jesus christ .
so , that would make bethany part black ?
i cant do this anymore .
whereyou gonna go ?
you know what lm saying is right .
its bullshit .
bethany .
its bullshit !
let her go , man .
give her time .
why ?
what the fuck do you want from me ?
i fucking hate you !
i hate you .
he cant hear you , you know .
thats whywe needed you .
why didntyou tell me ?
would you
could you have believed me ?
it was something you had to come to gradually .
only after everything youve seen ... everything youve heard ... could you possibly be able to accept the truth .
i dont want this .
its too big .
thats what jesus said .
i had to tell him .
you can imagine how that hurt the father ... not to be able to tell the son himself ... because one word from his lips would destroy the boys frail human form .
so i had to deliver the news to a scared child ... who wanted nothing more than to playwith other children .
i had to tell this little boy that he was gods only son ... and it meant a life ofpersecution and eventual crucifixion ... at the hands of the very people hed come to enlighten and redeem .
he begged me to take it all back .
as if i could .
he begged me to " make it all not true .
iil let you in on something , bethany , something lve never told anyone before .
ifl had the power ...
i would have .
its unfair .
its unfair to ask a child to shoulder that responsibility ... and to ask you to do the same now .
i sympathize .
i do .
i wish i could take it all back .
but i cant .
this ... is whoyou are .
everything i am has been a lie ?
knowing whatyou now know doesnt mean youre not who you were .
you are ...
bethany sloane .
no one can take that away from you , not even god .
all this means is a redefinition ofthat identity .
the incorporation ofthis new data into whoyou are .
be whoyouve always been .
just ... be this as well ... from time to time .
guess this means no more cheating on my taxes .
to say the least .
do you mind if we ad journ to somewhere ... a tad more habitable ... and a bit warmer ?
fuck , i think this shit just kicked in .
werent wejust in the woods ?
what are we doing here now ?
going out in style .
the voice .
the apostle .
now , whos this motherfucker ?
the voice of god .
show some respect .
oh , the voice ofgod .
wheres the rest of him ?
funny you should mention that .
were not sure .
what ?
didnt it ever occur to you ... that this bartleby loki situation was well within the sphere of his control ?
yes , but then whywas she tapped ?
you know those constitutionals that he likes to take ?
constitutionals " ?
i think were beyond euphemisms at this point .
gods a skeeball fanatic .
the lord has quite a fancy for the game .
hes been playing it foryears .
he assumes a human form once a month and indulges .
doesnt tell anyone where hes playing .
hejust goes away for a couple of hours .
and he always gives his free points away to neighbor hood children .
isnt that sweet ?
but she hasnt come back from one ofthese day trips ?
no , " she " hasnt ... and weve been unable to locate " her .
he couldve been killed .
human form does have that drawback .
no , theres a different sort of foul play a foot , children .
whomever has set the renegade angels on their path ... and is keeping them quite well hidden ... is also responsible for the lords whereabouts .
were he to be killed in human form ...
hed have returned immediately to heaven .
someone knew enough ... to keep him biologically alive ... but incapacitate him in another fashion .
and as omnipotent as we are above ...
i have to admit that were more or less lost without his presence .
weve looked everywhere for him .
i tapped her because i thought wed be able to smoke out whoevers behind this .
but whoever he is has been clever enough to send some lackeys afteryou ... as opposed to showing up themselves .
could it be lucifer ?
not lucifer .
if he was , hed have made his move by now to conquer heaven .
and i know hes not responsible for bartleby and loki ... because hes hadjust as much to lose by their return as anybody else .
what do we do now ?
i say we get drunk , cause lm all out of ideas .
why dont wejust ask this guy to close the church ?
i beg your pardon ?
the guy in charge ofthe church thing .
cardinal glick ?
maybe we can ask him to shut down the church .
ifits closed that day , those guys cant get blessed or whatever , right ?
good lord .
the little stoners got a point .
maybe we could talk this guy glick into cancelling the rededication ceremony .
we " ?
are you saying youre back in , ms. i dont think l can do this anymore ?
i wouldnt want to let the family down , now would l ?
well ... the prophets finally live up to their titles .
mass attendance is at an all time low in this country ... but if we can let em know the catholic church has a little panache ... we can win em back , even get some new ones .
excuse me .
fill them pews , people .
thats the key .
grab the little ones as well .
hook em while theyreyoung .
kinda like the tobacco industry .
christ , if only we had their numbers .
we really appreciate you seeing us this late in the day , your eminence .
my friends and i have been traveling all night in hope of talking to you ... about the st. michaels rededication ceremony .
you looking to help out in some way ?
wed likeyou to cancel the ceremony .
i beg your pardon .
theres gonna be a world of trouble if tomorrows ceremony goes on as planned .
areyou pro choice ?
the troubles not from us .
its from these renegade angels thatve been stuck on earth since the plagues .
these guys , they think theyre renegade angels .
see , padre , it goes down like this .
these guys think that by passing through that archway , they can go to heaven .
you want me to call offthe ceremony for that .
who sentyou ?
we were sent by him who is called i am !
cute .
really cute .
playtime with the cardinal is over .
worked for moses .
stay out ofthis .
its not ajoke .
im telling you , man , this ceremonys a big mistake .
the catholic church does not make mistakes .
please !
what about the churchs silent consent ofthe slave trade ?
and its platform ofnoninvolvement during the holocaust ?
all right , mistakes were made .
but one can hardly hold the current incarnation of holy mother church ... responsible for the oversights ofold .
im a very important man with important matters that demand my attention ... so if you please
but tomorrow  tomorrow goes off without a hitch .
do i make myself clear ?
neitheryou nor any other influence short ofthe hand of god himself ... is gonna keep this thing from going off without a hitch .
i can see the headlines now ... ifthere were gonna be any . " existence erased .
dont worry about it .
we evened the score .
hand it over , silent bob .
what up .
you stole the cardinals driver ?
thats what he gets for messin with our girlfriend .
cross dressin fuck .
thats sort of sweet .
thanks , guys .
what do we do now about bartleby and loki ?
i guess were gonna have to try and kill em .
you said they couldnt be killed .
correction .
theywont be killed .
andjust to ensure that , were all gonna sit tight ... right here ... until those two idiots pass through that arch .
theres only one idiot here , azrael ...
and lm looking right at him .
muse !
just in time to join us for a drink .
hey .
whered you come from ?
whered you come from ?
me ?
nothingness .
and thats where lm returning to in approximately , oh , one hour .
all right , plato , sounds like youve had enough already .
lets go .
oh , darn it !
come on , barkeep, just one drink .
one for the road , then lm gone ?
i was trying to find you to tell you i figured out who was behind all this .
is that who i think it is ?
none other than .
who is he ?
all right , one drink .
then youre gone .
give me a ...
holy bartender .
never heard ofit .
he doesnt know how to make a holy bartender .
you do , dontyou , muse ?
dont .
anybody ?
no ?
well , i know how to make a holy bartender .
get it ?
sweet jesus , azrael !
why ?
come on , demon !
try that shit on somebody whos already dead !
oh , apostle , you maintain that kind of an attitude ... and you and the barkeep wont be the only corpses in the room .
the christ bitch will join you .
areyou really that stupid ?
you do know whats gonna happen if those two jerks enter that church .
im actually counting on it .
and if my calculations are correct ... the pawns are moving into checkmate as we speak .
holy bartender . " i get it .
thats a great one !
id also like to acknowledge this great states governor , elizabeth dalton ... for coming this morning .
shes a protestant , but were not gonna hold that against her .
now , let mejust tell you a little bit ofhistory about this particular ... hundred years young house ofgod .
gods house ?
god doesnt live here anymore .
hes grown weary ofyour superficial faith .
hes turned a deafear toyour lip service prayers .
he has abandoned you , his favorites ...
sorry . to the whim ofjudgment .
hypocrites , charlatans ... prepare to taste gods wrath .
maybe we shouldjust leave .
you wanted your body count .
you got it .
this lot is rife with sin .
weil judge them all .
officer mcghee .
all right , mouthpiece ...
iets leave the nice cardinal alone and go for a ride .
mr. mcghee , dont make me angry .
you wouldnt like me when lm angry .
is that so ?
ladies and gentlemen ... you have been judged as guilty of violations against our almighty god ... and this very day ...
i assure you you will all pay for your trespasses ... in blood .
wings .
now .
im feeling a little exposed here .
do it !
so hes a muse too ?
former muse .
he was kicked out .
ever the fucking apple polisher .
then what happened ?
yes , what ?
well , luciferjust had to start his little war for the throne .
heaven became divided into two factions the faithful and the renegades .
oh , the ethereal plains were chaotic with battle .
angel against angel .
and when it was all over , god cast the rebels into perdition .
but azrael refused to fight .
he remained in the middle , waiting to see who came out victorious .
what areyou , some kind offuckin chicken ?
no .
i was an artist ... stupid !
i was inspiration !
a muse has no place in battle .
so after the fallen were banished to hell ...
god turned on those that wouldnt fight ... and azrael was sent down with the demons ... something he considers a great injustice .
oh , come on .
dont tell meyou never questioned the judgment , serendipity .
no .
it never bothered me .
soyou were an artist .
big deal !
elvis was an artist ... but that didnt stop him from joining the service in time ofwar .
thats why he is the king ... and youre a schmuck .
nice .
so all this is about revenge .
youre gonna unmake existence because you have a grudge against god ?
after the first million years ?
no .
escape from hell became my all consuming reason .
so i studied the religions and waited for my opportunity to present itself ... which it finally did ... in catholicism .
plenary indulgence .
but i couldnt exercise it .
demons cant become human .
no , we cant transubstantiate .
but angels can .
bartleby and loki .
after that it was a simple matter of waiting for a church ... to celebrate their centennial ... and when that finally happened i sent the pair an article laced with ideas .
an incantation i picked up in the pit ... kept them cloaked and off heavens radars .
and aside from the triplets here and the golgothan ... no soul in hell had a clue as to what was going on .
but the almighty could still putsch the whole deal ... so i dispatched him in a fairly ingenious fashion .
her .
and how ?
thats the only thing i couldnt figure out .
oh , no , lve seen way too many bond movies to know ... thatyou never reveal all the details ofyour plan ... no matter how close you may think you are to winning .
the only " x " factor was the involvement of the last scion here .
but fat lot ofgood that did , right ?
i mean , hereyou all are .
powerless to stop the inevitable .
look , asshole , i dont know if anyone explained the rules toyou ... but if you succeed everything gets blinked out ofexistence , even you .
human , haveyou ever been to hell ?
i think not .
id rather not exist than go back to that .
and if everyone has to go down with me , so be it .
still thinking only aboutyourself ... you fucking child !
now , now , now .
things are getting too intense in here .
hey !
what say we watch a little tv ?
yo , put on channel 9 .
davey and goliath .
actually , i was thinking more along the lines of current events .
keeprolling ! keeprolling !
i repeat , men withhuge fucking wings ... have laid waste tost .
michaels !
bullets dont seem to affect them !
the remainder of the crowd have dropped to theirknees ... identifying this as the fable da pocalypse .
now , lm notaman of faith , butlm inclined to agree .
oh , god , please , dont come any closer !
god , no !
you see that ?
and i told them to keep a low profile .
id be pissed , but in a couple minutes its not going to matter anyway .
oh ?
oh , now what was that all about ?
what ?
oh , nothing .
i had something in my eye .
now whos the fucking child ?
what did you tell him , to hit me with the golfclub ?
areyou serious ? lm a fucking demon .
youd have him assault me with a putter ?
you want to play ?
then weil play .
one side , red .
go ahead , then .
pick it up .
call it a gift .
come on .
thats it .
take a shot .
take your best fucking shot .
seriously .
im not kidding .
take it .
come on .
come on , bright boy .
dontyou know anything ?
bethany , bless the sink !
what ?
just do it !
bless the sink , damn it !
thats whatyou get , motherfucker .
but lm a fucking demon .
whatjust happened ?
lm a fucking demon .
hit a demon with an instrument ofgod , the pure side so itil do some damage .
silent bobs an instrument ofgod ?
no , but glicks the kind of asshole whod bless his clubs for a better game .
but the sink ?
youve got the divine heritage .
sanctifying isjust one ofthe fringe benefits .
remind me to try the water to wine thing at my next party .
how far away is this church ?
three towns over , about ten miles .
rufus , grab the gun .
ten steps ahead ofyou .
take the bartenders car .
he wont need it .
the whole fucking worlds against us , dude , i swear to god .
oh , my god .
and people wonderwhy i dont go to church anymore .
are we too late ?
to save these poor schmucks ?
yeah .
but we still exist .
where are they ?
they could already be in the church .
which means ifthey come out , nobody touches them .
areyou shitting me ?
the brother here is gonna shred em with his angel be good special .
huh , homey ?
if they pass through that arch , they come out clean .
and if they die , they go straight up .
and hello !
we know what happens then , right ?
why dont theyjust kill themselves ?
its a mortal sin .
die with a mortal sin on your soul and you burn .
they dont want to go to hell .
then what , are we supposed tojust wait for a solution to fall from the sky ?
friend of yours ?
no , that was a cardinal .
you cant tell from his face , but the rosaries are a dead giveaway .
its one ofthem !
kill that motherfucker !
dontyou listen ?
we cant touch him !
i wasnt .
i was gonna shoot his ass .
hes been at it for a while now .
please !
please !
we ran out of parishioners ... so hejust started picking up folk offthe road andjust dropping em .
this isjust eons ofrepression getting purged .
if only theyd let us jerk off .
whoops .
take a step back .
let me go !
why ?
what are you trying to prove ?
all these people !
hey , this wasnt my idea !
jesus christ !
i just wanted to go home .
but him , you know ... hejust lost it .
he realized who you were and whatyou were gonna have to do .
he just snapped .
the funny thing is , this guy could never even stand to see me work .
he said he felt sorry foryou people .
now look at him .
this guys fuckin drunker than hell .
which means hes human now .
his wings have been cut off .
the muse ?
oh , no way !
i havent seen you you look terrific .
wow !
whats with the tits ?
can l
haveyou walked through the arch yet ?
tell me .
have you gone in and come out through the archwayyet ?
no !
hes back .
we were awaiting your arrival .
bartleby , wait .
stop .
listen to me .
you cant go through with this .
azrael wasjust using you .
if you go back
ive become aware of the repercussions .
i know what lm doing .
you sick , twisted fuck !
bethany .
you , of all people , should understand what lm trying to accomplish here .
you too know what it feels like to be cast aside .
but youve only dealt with the pain a few years .
ive dealt with it for a millennia .
while you never seeyour ex husband or how blissful he is with his new wife and he is
seeing you people every day on this perfect world he created foryou ... is a constant reminder ... that though my kind came fiirst ... your kind was most revered .
and while you know forgiveness ... we know only regret .
the lesson must be taught .
all are accountable ... even god .
soon a cadre of police will arrive ... just in time to kill us as we exit the church .
then this failed experiment called existence ... will cease to be .
no .
hey .
hey !
i cant let you do that , bartleby .
this has gone too far .
i might have to takeyou down .
its okay .
shh .
iil do it .
my compatriot .
genocide takes a lot out ofhim .
hes weakened .
youre weak .
more importantly , hes also a human being ... a condition which carries two liabilities a conscience ... and ...
a short life span .
im sorry , old friend , but you lost the faith .
hes lost it .
were fucked .
were absolutely fucked !
i hear that shit .
i cant believe this .
were on the brink of non existence , and gods still nowhere to be found .
what kind of deity gets kidnapped ?
amen to that .
what the hell are you doing ?
if the whole worlds gonna end , you said youd fuck me .
youre a pig .
nobodys gonna beat that thing .
we can lay here all comatose like that john doejersey bastard over there ...
orwe can get makin with the love .
what did you say ?
make with the love .
its a nice way of saying boning .
no , aboutjohn doejersey .
that guy , the one they wont take off life support john doejersey .
this is where hes at st. michaels hospital .
wheres the nearest boardwalk ?
i aint got time to win you a prize .
we gotta get to the fucking .
where is it ?
asbury park , about five miles away .
haveyou ever been there ?
once , with this chick .
we were about to fuck on the carousel and i got sick , started puking .
do they have skeeball there ?
yeah .
thats what lm talkin about .
what ever you do , stall bartleby from going into that church .
bob , come with me .
come on !
how am i supposed to do that ?
think of something !
i already did , but it takes two ofus !
i repeat , thisis nota drill .
thisis the apocalypse .
please exit the hospital inan orderly fashion .
thankyou .
hey , big bird !
ready for the counting game ?
count the shells , suck a duck .
no more bullets .
now , what the fuck would you do that for ?
angels have to cut theirwings off to become human .
you just did him a favor , stupid !
i hope youre the skeeball type .
oh , bartleby .
was wisconsin really that bad ?
bow down , stupid !
im sorry .
anyone who isnt dead or from another plane of existence ... would do well to cover their ears right about now .
what the fuck ?
thankyou .
it never ends !
get offofme .
i wanna see whats up .
what the fuck is this shit ?
who the fuck are you , lady ?
why the fuck did you hug my head ?
quite a little mouth on him , isnt there ?
what the fuck is this , the piano ?
why aint this broad talkin ?
i believe the answers thatyou seek lie within my companions eyes .
what the fuck does that mean ?
has everyone gone fuckin nuts ?
what the fuck happened to that guys head ?
shh .
where was she ?
imprisoned in a body .
bethany figured it all out .
shes a clever girl , that one .
hang on a minute .
you missed a bit .
well , then , you ready to go back , apostle ?
you ready to make some ofthose changes i been talking about ?
weil see .
muse ?
seeing as how you just had to get involved ... youre welcome to return with us as well .
first i gotta say good bye to bethany .
where is she ?
oh , no .
metatron , is she
afraid so .
one of the drawbacks to being a martyr is that you have to die .
but no matter .
all is being taken care of .
how so ?
wax on , wax off .
how did l
she can rebuild you .
she has the technology .
she can makeyou better , stronger , faster .
thats ...
a very relieved deity .
you did well , little girl .
i knew youd come round .
your kind always does .
you might want to take good care ofyourself .
were gonna need you down the road .
i know .
im the last scion .
well , youre halfright .
you were the last scion .
but now ... this ... is the last scion .
im pregnant ?
cant put anything pastyou .
take care ofthat parcel for us .
she has a world ofwork ahead ofher .
thankyou for ...
i dont know ... everything .
god , theres a million things i wish i could ask you ... most of it questioning your great plan , and thatd be arrogant ofme , i know .
but there is one i need to ask .
im sure you get it all the time , but how many chances like this will i get ?
why are we here ?
didnt i tell you she was funny ?
i really enjoyed meeting you .
it was an honor .
you did so well .
i told you she was a woman .
shes not really a woman .
shes not really anything .
shes something , all right .
crisis offaith over ?
i think lm now burdened with an overabundance .
when it rains , it pours .
areyou saying you believe ?
but i have a good idea .
yes !
the man was right aboutyou .
now lm gonna go home and tell him so .
and ifyou clean upyour language ...
i just might put in a good word foryou too .
thanks .
why dontyou name the kid after me ?
rufus .
yo , we should go to quick stop .
youse guys wanna hear something sick ?
i got halfa stalk when she kissed me .
i couldnt help it .
the bitch was hot .
you cant talk to me that way anymore .
im gonna be somebodys mother .
youre pregnant ?
you know , when youre pregnantyou can have sex until the third trimester .
iil keep that in mind .
so , that wouldmake bethany partblack ?
