your mother' s trial starts this morning .
how long do you think it' il last ?
could be a while .
with eighty six counts of espionage against her , the prosecution alone could take months just to present their case .
i want to see the opening arguments .
i' il arrange for a closed circuit feed into the ops center .
thanks .
you know any jokes ?
' cause i could use one .
this grasshopper walks into a bar and the bartender says ,
hey , we have a drink named after you ! " and the grasshopper says
you have a drink named doug ?
well , i was going to use phil .
well , phil is certainly no funnier than doug .
no , i know , i' m sorry .
it' s a non humorous , uh ...
mr. sark .
as you know , he' s proven himself to be a key player in the world of international organized crime .
now he may be developing a bioweapon systemized form a virus that we' ve never seen before .
this is klaus richter , a former employee of sark' s whom we' ve recently taken into custody .
a routine medical workup revealed that richter may have been exposed to the virus before we picked him up .
marshall ?
thank you , sir .
okay , now , take a look on your screen here .
these little squiggly things that' s just a normal flue anti body , something that you might have if you got a common cold , or cough , something .
now let' s take a look at richter' s blood work .
now this shows antibodies one thousand per cent above normal levels .
very similiar to the ebola virus , most notably massive hemorrhaging .
except that this virus works by breaking down bonds between cells , so basically richter' s body in just a couple of days is gonna look oooh like , well , did you ever see that movie " the fly " ?
do you remember that little poor red assed baboon when he was , like , turned inside out ?
thank you , marshall .
we recently uncovered a charter agreement indicating that sark rented a medically equipped 727 to transport three patients presumably suffering from the same virus as richter to a private hospital in geneva .
this hospital is one of sark' s business fronts .
we believe he' s assembled a team to study the virus .
your objective is to infiltrate the facility and acquire the research .
jack , you' il be entering the hospital as a patient in need of a kidney transplant .
sydney , you' il be accompanying him as the loving daughter who' s agreed to donate one .
i trust this one won' t be too much of a stretch , hmmm , for either of you ?
we should talk .
we have nothing to talk about .
i know you have questions .
you can either be angry , or you can be informed .
please try to understand what i' m about to tell you , sydney .
after your mother left , i tested project christmas on you because i didn' t want you to be a victim .
i thought it was my responsibility to teach you how to think strategically , to see through people' s lies , to be as strong as you could be in an environment where one mistake could cost you your life .
then you should' ve told me the truth before i ended up here .
yes , you' re right !
i never intended you to lead a double life .
i imagined recruiting you into the cla after you finished college .
but sloane got to you first , and that is a mistake i will never live down .
i' d like to believe you , but i don' t trust anything you say .
closed circuit' s online , the proceeding start in about a minute .
and the feed will be right over here .
thanks , rick .
sure .
that' s senator douglas .
where' s the judge ?
distiguished witnesses , i know you were expecting opening arguments for the prosecution of irina derevko , but as of this morning a plea agreement has been reached with the defendant .
in regard to the eighty six counts of espionage leading to the deaths of twelve united states operatives ,  derevko has pled guilty on all counts .
a select penalty jury was empanelled early this morning and the decision was predictably swift .
derevko received the maximum sentence under federal statute death by lethal injection .
since she' s opted to forego all appeals , the execution will be carried out three days from today .
session adjourned .
confidential to deputy director devlin .
i' m writing to inform you that my father ,
jack bristow , did willfully deceive the cla into believing irina derevko violated her immunity agreement .
i' m committing this statement to paper so it may be used in an officiial capacity to halt my mother' s execution .
despite her past crime , i can' t in good conscience allow her sentence to be carried out when she kept her word to cooperate with us .
it is not irina derevko who should be answering to these charges .
it is my father .
we have a dead drop .
request pick up .
looks like a letter .
copy that .
sending agent for retrieval .
when my mom first came back , i wanted her dead .
how the hell did i become the person who' s trying to save her ?
that doesn' t mean that you have to be her best friend .
it means that you did the right thing .
how are you ?
oh , i got my , uh , thirty days sobriety chip .
even though i wasn' t ever a drug addict , i' m kind of proud .
oh , by the way , you know anybody who wants a car ?
i' m hocking mine .
you' re selling your car ?
yeah , well , it' s either that or i quit paying my student loans .
i can' t afford to have bad credit and a criminal record .
well , i know you' re going to say no but i can lend you money .
yes , i' m gonna say no .
but thank you .
hey .
in the morning , i got rear ended by four frat guys coming home from a party .
two of them threw up while i was getting their insurance information .
at least they had insurance .
why are you cleaning like this ?
you' re acting like howard hughes .
well , the zagat guy is coming to give his review today .
i want this place spotless .
there' s a hamburger behind you .
you know , francie , i worked up through los feliz and atwater village .
oh , cool , cliff , thanks .
give me just a second ?
okay , i told him i' d give him a couple bucks if he just handed out some fliers , got the word out .
hamburgers aren' t on the menu , are they ?
garden burger .
how much are you paying that guy ?
twelve bucks an hour .
hamburger' s making more than i am .
keep cleaning , sweetie .
i gotta clean .
i gotta catch a plane .
be safe .
okay .
sir , if you' il recall project christmas was developed by jack bristow to train potential cla recruits at a young age .
now , based on the research irina derevko stole from him , the kgb developed their own version of the project .
yes , i recall .
one of our assets in moscow just sent this over .
it' s a test questionnaire administered to a group of first graders in the early eighties .
the test was designed to identify kids who would make good agents in the soviet secret service .
reading over it , what really struck me is how similiar these questions are to a standard iq test given to first graders in this country .
where are you going with this ?
remember the rumour going around the agency around the cold war about the soviets raising sleeper agents as americans ?
now , i know it sounds potentially paranoid , but this is how they would do it if they managed to get their test in circulation here .
they could have contacted hundreds of kids .
interesting , but unlikely .
i just think it would be intersting to analyze tests from
stop .
we can' t spare a single agent right now , much less a team for a project that at best has historical value .
the kgb doesn' t even exist anymore !
i see your mother' s latest maneuver had its intended effect on you .
what maneuver would that be ?
pleading guilty , accepting the death penalty .
yep .
she' s got us right where she wants us .
not us .
you .
your mother' s no fool .
she must have deduced i set her up , so why do you imagine she pled guilty ?
because she was struck by a crisis of conscience ?
i think she knew the verdict was a foregone conclusion .
she pled guilty to keep you from witnessing her trial , sydney , from having you see photos of the agents she savagely murdered , including vaughn' s father .
she knew if you sat through that , whatever sympathy she' d managed to elicit from you would vanish , so she cast herself as the victim to compel you to save her and guess what ?
you fell for it .
i thought you deserved a second chance to think things over .
here' s your letter .
how' d you get that ?
i spent a decade with this woman and another twenty years analyzing how she could have deceived me for so long .
trust me when i tell you , i am protecting you .
no , you' re not .
i think you loved mom so much that when she left you , you lost your soul .
you know what else i think ?
i think the kind of man who' d use his own daughter to frame her mother , who' d test psych experiments when she was six years old is the kind of man who looks at his daughter and sees his greatest mistake .
you can' t honestly believe that .
it' s true , isn' t it ?
if mom hadn' t fooled you , if you hadn' t been so gullible , i never would have been born .
i' m going to finish reviewing the mission now .
thanks .
thanks for coming .
of course .
is everything all right ?
okay , look , i don' t i don' t know how to say this other than to just say it .
i need a job .
with all the publicity , no one will hire me .
i thought maybe you could help me out .
i mean ,
i don' t mean to be an agent .
i know the cla has a ton of front companies defense contractors , shipping companies .
i' il work at a desk , anywhere , just as long
look , i know this will drive you insane , but we can' t employ you because you have a criminal record .
i have a criminal record because of a drug habit i never had .
you know anybody who wants to buy a car ?
there might be something .
i have a discretionary fund used for informants .
totally off the books .
i could pay you to do research .
seriously ?
man , i would so owe you .
this is a list of questions , please keep them to yourself .
all i need you to do is find out if any of these questions ever appeared on a standardized test in the united states over the last twenty years .
okay , the more you tell me the faster i can get you what you want , so
i pay by the hour .
take your time .
thank you .
you' re welcome .
mr. harris , i' m jan spinnaker , hospital administrator .
welcome to st. auburn' s .
my daughter , and the very twinkle of my eye marion .
daddy , stop it !
it' s so nice to meet you .
a pleasure to meet a daughter who' d sacrifice so much for her father .
i would do anything for my daddy .
this way , please .
the computer in this satchel provides me a secure link to my money .
the satchel cannot be removed from my arm during the operation .
all arrangements have been made
now , i chose your hospital for its high security standards .
we employ security with training equivalent to the secret service .
you won' t be disappointed .
very good !
okay , you' re going to geneva to get a sample of a top secret virus .
now , your cover is you' re going in for kidney transplants .
well , now , you' re probably thinking now ,
hold on a second , marshall !
we need our kidneys !
well , don' t worry .
they' re not going anywhere because of this .
now , basically , when you are positioned in the or , press this button lightly twice .
it will activate a tank of halothane .
now , halothane is the same anesthetic they' re pumping through your masks .
why don' t you both try counting backwards from ten ?
ten ... nine ... eight ...
which leads us to question number two .
if they' re pumping anesthesia in the room and you' re also gulping it down what did i do with by the maskful , then what' s going to prevent us from passing out ourselves ?
the solution is in the solution .
it' s a mix of anti anesthetia and i also , for good measure , threw in a time release synthetic caffeine that i use in my decaf every morning .
just take it right before you head into the hospital and trust me , you won' t fall asleep .
six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one ...
they' il be out for fifteen minutes .
they' ve all been sedated for the pain .
patient zero' s in there .
get a blood sample , i' il download the viral research .
irina ?
i need help !
don' t struggle .
he could tear the gloves off , you could become infected .
i' il up his morphine .
irina ?
irina ?
his vitals fell below the preset warning levels .
the doctors will be alerted .
work fast .
eagle eye , this is blackbird .
requiring early extraction , lz bravo .
copy that , blackbird .
eta lz bravo , three minutes .
come on .
come on , come on , come on !
this is dr. giselle , i need security teams on the research level , now !
we need to get to the roof .
the elevator won' t come to this floor !
security will flank us from both sides of the hall .
we can' t reload the tranqs fast enough to take out another four people .
find some iodine .
ammonia and iodine form an unstable compound when they' re mixed together .
initiate level three lockdown , perimeter and elevators !
i' ve got this !
blackbird , we' re on the roof , we' re waiting for you !
don' t shoot !
against the wall !
bypass the lockdown , i' il hold them off !
buy me ten seconds , i need more time !
ammo !
sydney !
if you' re wondering why that man mistook you for your mother , he worked for her .
i skimmed the research as it was downloading .
before she surrendered to the cla , irina deliberately ordered
sark to expose some of her own operatives to the virus in order to study it .
ask yourself if that' s a person worth saving .
i had toxicology analyze the glass of wine that somehow made its way into my house last week .
they found a compound called vtx which counteracts the effects of sodium morphate .
sodium morphate is the poison i used to ... end emily' s suffering .
i see two possibilities .
either emily predicted your intention to euthanize her , took the necessary countermeasures and is now playing a game with you , or the more likely scenario someonewants you to believe emily' s alive or worse , they' il try and make the alliance believe it , too .
if they think that i failied to carry out the one condition of my admittance , that i have been betraying them the whole time , then they' d be forced to assume that my entire division is rogue .
then we' il all be in danger .
i don' t think i can ever forgive my father for the things he' s done , but maybe he' s right about what he' s been saying all alone .
maybe her cooperation is partof some eleborate strategy he' s more equipped to see than i am .
look , your father' s asking you to let her die for something she might do .
i don' t think you can live with that .
good work in geneva .
thanks .
the cla is analyzing the copy of the disk you brought back .
if sd 6 plans on using the virus as a weapon we might be able to get a jump on the antidote thanks to the blood work you brought back .
i hope so .
oh , listen , there' s something else you should know .
will came to me for a job .
he did ?
well , he didn' t want to bother you so i hired him off the books to do some research .
on what ?
just background on the old kgb version of project christmas .
of course , i didn' t tell him that .
he thinks he' s comparing iq tests against the public record .
i just figured it was your perogative to tell him more .
that was really nice of you , thanks .
you' re welcome .
there' s nothing more boring than a commerce bureau luncheon .
thanks for joining me , jack .
what is it ?
did you ... see that ?
see what ?
can i help you ?
aaaah !
did you see someone come in here just now ?
a woman ?
no , i' ve been alone all morning .
father , would you excuse us , please ?
sit down .
now you tell me you saw her !
i saw a woman but it could have been anyone .
you may be suffering from post traumatic stress disorder brought on by intense feelings of guilt .
arvin , you have walked into a church .
a place to confess .
she' s alive .
she knew the alarm code .
she could have come into the house undetected .
there is a clear way to know for certain but i hesitate to suggest it .
sir , there' s something i have to report .
while it appeared that my mother sent me into a trap in madagascar , in truth , she was unaware that there was any danger .
yes , i know .
i have your father' s statement right here .
he told us himself this morning .
what ?
a hearing has been scheduled with the joint intelligence committee .
my intention wasn' t to punish my father , sir , it was to stop my mother' s execution from going forward .
yes ?
i' il send her down right now .
they' d like to see you in medical services .
you asked to see me ?
agent bristow , i' m doctor nicholas .
what' s going on ?
five weeks ago you infiltrated one of your mother' s labratories in taipei where you discovered a rambaldi device .
how long were you in proximity to the device ?
i ... it took me about a minute to rig it with explosives .
i made it to the other side of the door but vaughn was submerged .
i don' t know , maybe another minute or two .
will someone please tell me what' s going on ?
we believe the device is the source of the virus that infected the men in geneva .
unfortunately , you and agent vaughn may have been exposed .
i' m sorry .
we' d like to draw some blood and keep you under observation .
if sloane pages me , this is gonna be a problem .
your father' s been informed .
he' s covering for you .
i know .
hi .
hey .
did you close your eyes at all ?
on and off .
you talk in your sleep .
no !
what did i say ?
don' t frost the pie ! " it seemed really important .
no idea .
you think we' re sick ?
i don' t know .
vaughn , can i tell you something ?
agent bristow , your tests came back negative for antibodies , you' re free to go .
agent vaughn , your tests at this point are inconclusive .
we did find a heightened level of antibodies in your blood stream but you could simply be fighting off a cold .
we won' t know for a few more hours .
you' il have to stay .
you said sark tested patient' s blood at the first sign of infection .
what was the sign ?
hemorrhaging from the fingernails .
it' il be fine .
your dad' s hearing' s in an hour , you should go .
i' il see you soon .
yeah .
agent bristow , this hearing' s been convened to determine an appropriate punishment for the crimes depicted in your statement .
before we begin our inquiry , do you have anything to say ?
only that despite my admission of guilt , i still firmly believe irina derevko is a threat and will prove it at her earliest possible convenience .
is that how you justify lying to your superiors , endangering other agents ?
yes .
why this sudden change of heart ?
deferentially , senator , my reasons are my own .
i see .
reviewing your file , i was shocked to discover how many times you' ve displayed behavior that at best can be characterized as rogue .
you have lost the benefit of the doubt here , sir , and your silence will not suffice .
so again , i ask you , why the change of heart ?
my daughter convinced me that i acted unethically .
isn' t it a fact that you knew your daughter intended to turn you in and that you beat her to the punch only by an hour in order to secure a degree of leniency from this body ?
no , sir , that is not the case .
sydney bristow , my daughter ... has come to believe that when i look at her , i see the embodiment of all my flaws .
and this afternoon when i learned that she may have been exposed to a life threatening disease ,
i realized that she might die believing that .
but nothing could be further from the truth .
when i look at her , when i look at the little girl who raised herself to become one of the most extraordinary human beings and one of the finest agents i' ve ever had the privilege of knowing ,
i see only the promise of my own redemption .
turning myself in was the only way i could think of to make that clear to her , to prove that despite ... my limited abilities as a father , i love her more than i could ever say .
i didn' t order this .
it' s from the gentleman at the bar .
you okay ?
yeah , clean bill of health .
apparently , i am fighting a cold .
i came by to see you after the hearing but they were still running tests .
i know , they told me you came here .
this is ridiculous , being in the same restaurant on the phone .
listen , syd , i , um , i actually came by to tell you something .
they' re sending your father to prison .
you' re kidding ?
it gets worse .
douglas decided your mother' s immunity agreement was never binding .
they' re going to carry out her death sentence anyway .
her execution goes ahead tomorrow at eight am .
welcome back to washington , senator .
ed , you missed the exit .
hello ?
no !
no !
hey !
you' re making a blg mistake !
sorry about the detour , senator ...
what the hell are you doing ? ! ... but i need two minutes of your undivided attention .
i don' t care what point you want to make !
i' d like you to consider dropping the charges against my father and honor my mother' s immunity agreement .
you can' t be serious .
i recognize how indecisive this sounds
that' s a full understatement , my dear !
i turned her in under false pretenses and i' ve come to believe my father was protecting me .
his interest are irrelevant , it' s his decisions that matter .
i' m sorry , agent bristow , but my colleagues and i have zero tolerance for anyone who would lie to their own government , especially in this day and age .
and your mother ?
well , she' s had it coming for twenty years .
now given what you' ve been through ,
i' m willing to forgive your little misstep tonight .
would you kindly drop me off at home ?
wait in the car .
how did you persuade douglas to reverse himself ?
i told him i have a secret only you and i know about .
a secret that sloane told you in confidence that poses such a threat to national security that we couldn' t trust even the cla to contain it .
what secret is that ?
one of your colleagues a united states senator is working for the alliance .
we have evidence of wire transfers totaling 6 . 3 million .
to whom ?
that' s what we' re trying to find out .
but without my mother and father , i' il be forced to hand over the investigation to the fbl .
there' s no senator in the alliance' s pocket .
you lied .
i' m not proud of what i did .
i may not agree with your decision to interact with your mother ,
sydney , but i will from now on respect that it is your decision to make .
they' re bringing in your mother now .
i' m sure you' il want to see her .
