caught in the act ! all that will be acted , potter no ,
mr. filch you don' t understand
professor , i swear i didn' t ... this is out of my hands , potter
professor dumbledore will be waiting for you
sheberdlemon
professor dumbledore ?
bee in your bonnet , potter eh , eh , i was, |i was just wandering if you put me in the right house yes you were particularly diffcult to place
but i stand by what i said last year you would' ve done well in slytherin you are wrong
harry
professor , sir ... your bird there was nothing i could do he just caught fire oh , about time , too he' s been looking dreadful for days pity, you had to see him on a burning day
fawkes is a phoenix , harry . they burst into flame when it is time for them to die and they are . reborn from the ashes
oh , that' s fascinating creatures , phoenixes .
they can carry immensely heavy loads , their tears have healing powers
professor dumbledore, sir , wait ,
listen
professor dumbledore, sir, it wasn' t harry
hagrid in fact i prepare to swear it in front of the ministry of magic
hagrid ! relax
i do not think that harry attacked any one . of course you don' t oh , .. oh, great ! ... then ...
i' il just wait outside you don' t think it was me , professor ? no , harry , i do not think it was you but i must ask you is there something you wish to tell me ?
no sir very well , then , off you go
everything is set , we just need a bit who you change into crabbe and goyle we also need to make sure the real crabbe and goyle |can' t burst in on us while we' re interrogating malfoy how ?
i' ve got it all worked out
i' ve filled these with a simple sleeping draught simple but powerful now, once they are asleep hide them in a broom closet and pull out a few of their hairs and put their uniforms
whose hair are you ripping out then ?
i ' ve alreaday got mine
millicent bulstrode in slytherin
i got this off her robes
i am going to check on the polyjuice potion make sure crabbe and goyle find these
ron, maybe , maybe i should do it yeah , right
magadlmigosa
good cool
how thick could you get ? come on , let' s get them we' il have exactly one hour before we change back into ourselves .
add the hairs erh ... essence of crabbe cheers
i think i am gonna be sick me too
harry ?
ron ? bloody hell we still sound like ourselves you need sound more like grabbe bloody hell excellent but where is hermione
i ... i don' t think i am going you go without me
hermione , are you ok ? just go you' re wasting time come on
i think slytherin common room is this way excuse me what are you doing down ....
i mean , what are you doing down here ?
i happen to be a school prefect you on the other hand have no bussiness wondering the corridors at this time of night what' s your name again ? eh , i' m ....
crabbe and goyle where have you two been ? pigging out in the great hall all this time ? why are you wearing glasses ?
i ... , i am reading reading ?
i didn' t know you could read what are you doing down here , weasley ? mind your attitude , malfoy
well , sit down you never know that weasleys were pure bloods the way they behave they are emmbassing the wizarding world , all of them what' s wrong with you ?
crabbe stomachach
you know , i' m surprised the daily prophet |hasn' t done any report of all these attacks
i suppose dumbledore' s trying to hush it all up .
father' s always said dumbledore was the worst thing |that' s ever happened to this place . you' re wrong
what ? you think some one here is worse than dumbledore ? well , do you ?
harry potter ?
good one , goyle , you absolutely right
saint potter
and people actually think he' s heir slytherin !
but then you must have some idea who is behind it all you know i don' t , goyle
i told you yesterday how many times do i have to tell you ? is this yours ?
but my father did say this it' s been 50 years since the chamber was opened he wouldn' t tell me who opened it only they were spelled the last time the chamber of secret was opened a mudblood died so it' s only matter of time before one of them' s killed this time as to me
i hope it' s granger what' s the matter with you two you' re acting very odd it' s his stomachache calm down scar
hey , where are you going ? that was close
hermione , come on , we' ve got loads to tell you go away wait you' il see it' s awful
hermione , are you ok ?
do you remmeber me telling you ? the polyjuice potion is only for the human transformations it was cat hair i pulled off millicent bulstrode' s robes
look at my face
look at your tail
we spoke to hermione she' il sleep in hospital for a few days when she stop coughing out furballs
what' s this ?
yark, looks like moaning myrtle flooded the bathroom
come to throw something else at me ?
why would i throw something at you ? don' t ask me
here i am, minding my own business , and someone thinks it' s funny to throw a book at me ......
but it can' t hurt you if someone throws something at you
i mean , it' d just go right through you so !! let' s all throw books at myrtle , because she can' t feel it !
ten points if you can get it through her stomach ! |fifty points if it goes through her head !
but, who threw it at you , anyway ?
i don' t know
i didn' t see them
i was just sitting in the u bend , thinking about death and it fell right through the top of my head
tom maryold riddle
my name is harry potter
hello , harry potter , my name is tom riddle
do you know anything about the chamber of secrets
yes " can you tell me ?
no " " but i can show you
let me take you back fifty years ago
13th june
excuse me could you tell me what' s going on here ? are you tom riddle ?
hello , can you hear me ?
riddle " up
professor dumbledore
dumbledore it is not wise to be wandering around this late hour , tom yes , professor , i suppose
i have to see it for myself if the rumor was true
i am afraid , they are , tom , they are true well this school as well
i don' t have home to go to , sir they won' t really close hogwart , would they , professor ?
i understand , tom
i am afraid headmaster dipper may have no choice sir , if it all stoped the person who' s responsible was caught is there something you wish to tell me ?
no sir nothing very well then off you go goodnight , sir
what' s going on there ? evening , hagrid
i am going to turn you in , hagrid i don' t think you meant to kill any one, but you can' t, you don' t understand
the dead girl' s parents will be here tomorrow .
the least hogwarts can do is make sure that the thing |that killed their daughter is slaughtered ...... it wasn' t him
aragog never kill no one , never monsters don' t make good pets, hagrid just stand aside no
stand aside , hagrid no sesytenopeylde oronylexrtln
aragog !
aragog !
i can' t let you go
i have you warned for this , hagrid you would be expelled
hagrid
it was hagrid
hagrid opened the chamber of secret 50 years ago it can' t be hagrid , just can' t be we don' t even know this tom riddle he sound like a dirty rotten snitch to me the monster had killed somebody , ron what if he has done ?
look , hagrid' s our friend why don' t why just go and ask him about it ?
that' d be a cheerful visit
hello , hagrid .
tell us , have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose |in the castle lately ? mad and hairy ? you wouldn' t be talking about me , now, would you ? no
what' s that you got , hagrid ? oh , it' s flesh eatin ' slug repellent for the mandrake , you know according to proffessor sprout, they still gonna need bit grown up to do, |but once their acne' s been cleared up , we' il be able to chop them up, |stew them, and then we' il get those people down at hospital unpetrified in meantime, you know , you three , best look after yourselves all right ?
hello , nevill
harry , i don' t who did it , but you' d be better come come on
it has to be a gryffindor nobody else know our password unless he wasn' t a student whoever he was , he must be looking something he found it
tom riddle' s diary is gone oh , well , listen up we play our game , hufflepuff doesn' t stand a chance stronger , quicker , and smarter not to mention they' re deadly scared that|harry' il petrify any one near him oh , that too professor mcgonagall this match has been cancelled you can' t cancell quidditch silence , wood you and your teammates will go to gryffindor tower , now
potter you and i will find mr. weasley there are someting the both of you' il have to see
i warn you
this could be a bit of a shock
hermione ! she was found near the library alone with this does it mean anything to either of you ? no
could i have your attention please becasue of recent events , these new rules will be put effect immediately all students will return to their house common room |by six clock every evening all students will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher no exceptions
i should tell you this unless the culprit behind these attacks is caught it is likely the school will be closed
we got to talk to hagrid , ron
i can' t believe it' s him if he did set the monster loose last time he' il know how to get inside the chamber of secrets that' s a start but you heard mcgonagall but we are not allowed to leave tower except class
i think it' s the time to get my dad' s old cloak again
who' s there ? hello ? hello ? what' s that for ? oh , nothing ,
i' ve being expecting ... , and it doesn' t matter , come on in just made a pot of tea
hagrid , are you ok ?
i' m worried , i am all right did you hear about hermone ? oh , yeah , i heard about that , all right
look , we have to ask you something do you know who' s opened the chamber of secrets ?
what you have to understand about that is quick , under the cloak don' t say a word , quiet , both of you
proffessor dumbledor , sir good evening , hagrid
i wonder , could we ? .. of course, come in come in that' s dad' s boss
cornelius fudge , the minister of magic !
bad business , hagrid, very bad business .
had to come . three attacks on muggle borns .
things' ve gone far enough .
ministry' s got to act .
i never, you know i never , professor
i want it understood , cornelius , that hagrid has my full confidence
albus look ,
hagrid' s record is against him .
i' ve got to take him take me ? take me where ?
not azkaban prison ?
i am afraid we have no choice , hagrid already here , fudge , good what are you doing here ? get out of my house believe me , i absolutely have no pleasure at all being inside your er you call this a house ?
i simply called at the school and|was told that the headmaster was here . and what exactly is it that you want with me ?
the other governors and i desided |it' s time for you to step aside .
this is an order of suspension
you' il find all twelve signatures on it .
i' m afraid we feel you' re losing your touch .
well , with all those attacks there' il be no muggle borns left at hogwarts
i can only imagin what an awful loss that would be to the school . you can' t take professor dumbledore away take him away , the muggleborns won' t stand a chance you have my word , there' il be killing next ! you think so
calm yourself , hagrid
if the governors desire my removal
i will of course step aside however you will find the help will always be given to hogwarts to those who ask for it
any more sentiments ? shall we ?
come , hagrid well if if anybody was looking some stuff that all they have to do would be to follow the spiders yeah , that will lead them right that' s all i have to say oh , well, some one need to feed fang when i am away good boy
hagrid is right
dumbledor gone here will be attack everyday
look come on come on , fang
come on what ? you heard what hagrid said follow the spiders they' re heading to the dark forest why spiders why can' t we follow the butterflies ?
harry , i don' t like this
harry , i don' t like it at all
can we go back now ? come on
who is it ? don' t panic
hagrid , is that you ? we are friends of hagrid' s
and you you are aragog , aren' t you ? yes
hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before he is in trouble , up in the school , for the punish of attacks they think it' s hagrid they think he open the chamber of secrets they think he opened the chamber of secrets like before that' s a lie
hagrid' d never opened the chamber of the secrets then , you are not the monster no the monster was born in the castle
i came to hagrid from a distant land in the pocket of a traveler but if you are not the monster , then what did kill that girl 50 years ago we do not speak of it it' s an ancient creature we spiders fear above all others but have you seen it ?
i never saw any part of the castle with the books in which hagrid kept me the girl was discovered in bathroom when i was accused, hagrid brought me here
harry what ?
well , thank you we' il just go go
i think not
my sons and daughters do not harm hagrid , on my command .
but i can not deny them fresh meat, | when it wanders so willingly into our midst . goodbye friends of hagrid can we go back now ?
know any spells ? one but it' s not powerful enough for all of them where is hermione when you need her
let' s go
ronlegezlmely
glad we' re out there
ermonlaexpay
thanks for that don' t mention it
get out of here now come on come on , a little faster
go , go
get us in the air the flying gear is jammed come on oh , i am trying
follow the spiders follow the spiders if hagrid ever get out of azkaban , i will kill him
i mean what was the point of sending us in there what we found out ? we know one thing
hagrid' d never opened the chamber of secrets he was innocent
i wish you were here , hermione we need you now more than ever
what' s that ?
ron this why hermione was in the library the day she was attacked come on of many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land none is more more deadly than the basilisk capable of living for hundreds of years instant death awaits any who meets this giantic serpent' s eyes
spiders flee before it
ron , this is it the monster in chamber of secrets is a basilisk that' s why i can hear its speak it' s a snake but if it kills by looking people in the eye why is it no one' s died ?
because no one did look in the eye not directly at least
colin saw it through his camera
justin justin must' ve seen the basilisk through nearly headless nick !
nick got the full blast of it, | but he is a ghost , he couldn' t die again and hermione had the mirror
i bet you anything she was using it to look around corners| in case it came along and mrs. norris
i' m pretty sure she didn' t have a camera or mirror , harry the water that was the water on the floor that night she only saw the basilisk' s reflection
spiders flee before it it all fits but how' s basilisk been getting around ?
a dirty great snake . . .
someone would' ve seen it ...
hermione thought that too pipes it' s using the plumbing remmeber what aragog said : about that girl 50 years ago ? she died in the bathroom what if she' d never left ?
moaning myrtle ?
all students to return to their house dormitories at once .
all teachers return to second floor corrider .
immediately
as you can see the heir of slytherin has left another message the worst fear has been realized , |a student has been taken by the monster into the chamber itself students must be sent to home
i am afraid this is the end of hogwarts so sorry , dozed off , what i missed a girl has been snatched by the monster, lockhart your moment has come at last my ? no ... no ...
weren' t you saying just last night that you' ve known all along |where the entrance to the chamber of secrets is ?
that' s settled we will leave you to deal with the monster, gilderoy your skills , after all , are legend very well
i' il just be in my office , getting ... getting ready
who is it the monster has taken another ?
ginny weasley
her skeleton will lie in the chamber forever
ginny ...
lockhart maybe useless , but if he' s going to try and get into the chamber . at least we can tell him what we know professor , we have some information for you are you going somewhere ? oh , yes , eh .. urgent call , unavoidable , got to go what about my sister ? as for that , most unfortunate no one regrets more than i you are the defense against the dark art teacher you can' t go now
i must say , when i took the job, |there was nothing in the job description about the ... you are running away ?
after all that stuff you did in your books
books can be misleading you wrote them my dear boy , do you use your common sense ?
my books wouldn' t have sold half as well |if people didn' t think i' d done all those things you are a fraud you' ve just been taking credit for other wizards have done ? so anything you can do ? yes now you mentioned it
i am rather gifted in memory charms otherwise you see, all those wizards would' ve gone blabbing and i' d never sold another book in fact
i , eh , i am ' eh, going to have to do the thing to you don' t even think about it
oh , who' s there ? oh , hello, harry what do you want ? to ask you how you died ?
it was dreadful it happened right here in this dirty cubicle
i' d hidden because olive hornby was teasing me about my glasses
i was crying then i heard somebody come in who was it , myrtle ?
i don' t know
i was distrought ! but they said something funny a kind of madeup language , and i realized it was a boy' s speaking so i unlocked the door to tell him , " go away " and , i died .. just like that , how ?
i just remember seeing a pair of great , big , yellow eyes . over there by that sink
this is it this is it, ron, |i think this is the entrance of chamber of secrets say something
harry , say something in parseltongue .
excellent , harry ha , good work , then , i' il just be ... there is no need for me to stay
you first no boys , what good it will do ? better you than us
you sure you don' t want to test it first ?
really quite filth down here all right
let' s go oh , harry if you die down there , you are welcome to share my toilet eh , thanks , myrtle
now , remmeber any signs of movement , close your eyes straight away go on this way
what is this ? it looks like a snake it' s snake skin bloody hell
i am sure this must be 60 feet long hard to a liar this one
adventure ends here , boys but don' t fright the world will know our story but however it' s too late to save the girl how you two tragically lost your minds |at the sight of her mangled body so , you first , mr. potter say goodbye to your memories obliviate !
harry harry
ron
ron , are you ok ?
i' m fine
hello who are you ?
i' m ron weasley
really and who am i ?
lockhart' s memory charm backfired he hasn' t got clue who he is it' s an odd sort of place , isn' t it ?
do you live here ? no really ? eh ... what do i do now ? you wait here and try to shift some these rocks , so we can get back through
i' il go and find ginny ok
ginny , oh , please don' t be dead wake up , wake up , please wake up she won' t wake
tom
tom riddle ? what do you mean she won' t wake ? she is not ... she' s still alive but only just are you a ghost ? a memory , reserved in a diary for 50 years she' s cold as ice
ginny , please don' t be dead wake up you got to help me , tom , there is a basilisk
it won' t come until it is called give me my wand , tom
you won' t be needing it
listen , we' ve got to go , we' ve got to save her
i am afraid i can' t do that , harry , you see as poor ginny growes weaker
i grow stronger yes , harry , |it was ginny weasley who opened the chamber of secrets no , she couldn' t , she wouldn' t it was ginny who set the basilisk on mudblood and filch' s cat
ginny wrote the frighten messages on the walls why ? because i told her to you' il find that i can be very persusive not that ginny knew what she was doing , she was shall we say , in a kind of trance still , the power of diary began to scare her she tried to dispose it in girl' s bathroom and then you should find it , but you the very person i was most anxious to meet why did you want to meet me ?
i knew i have to talk to you meet you if i could so i desided to show you my capture of that brainless hagrid to gain your trust
hagrid is my friend and you framed him , didn' t you ? it was my word to against hagrid only dumbledore seemed to think he was innocent but dumbledore saw right through you he certainly kept an annoyingly close watch on me after that
i knew it wouldn' t be safe to open the chamber again |while i was still at school so i desided to leave behind a diary preserving my sixteen year old self in its pages so that one day
i would be able to lead another to finish salazar slytherin' s noble work but you haven' t finished it this time in few hours , the mandrake draught will be ready and every one who was petrified will be right to go haven' t i told you ? killing mudbloods doesn' t matter to me any more ?
for many months now , my new target has been you . how is it that a baby with no extraordinary magical talent was able to defeat the greatest wizard of all time ?
how did you escape with nothing but a scar while lord voldemort' s powers were destroyed ?
why do you care how i escaped ? |voldemort was after your time ......
voldemort is my past , present , and future
i am lord voldemort you you are the heir of slytherin you are lord voldemort so we ... you didn' t think i was going to keep|my filthy muggle father' s name ? no
i fashioned myself a new name a name i knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak , when i had become the greatest sorcerer in the world !
albus dumbledore is the greatest sorcerer in the world !
dumbledore' s been driven out of this castle |by the mere memory of me ! he would never be gone . not as long as those remain loyal to him
fawkes ?
so this is what dumbledore sends his defender !
a songbird and an old hat !
let' s match the powers of lord voldemort ,
heir of salazar slytherin against the famous harry potter
so , i have asks , potter, no one will save you
potter, it only obeys me
no your bird may have blinded basilisk but it can still hear you
yes, potter the process is nearly complete in a few minutes
ginny weasley will be dead and i will cease to be a memory
lord voldemort will return very much alive
ginny
remarkable , isn' t it ? how quickly the venom of basilisk can penetrate the body
i guess you have a little more than a minute to live you will be with your dear mudblood mother , soon , harry
funny the damage a silly little book can do especially in the hands of a silly little girl what are you doing ? stop no
ginny
harry it was me
i swear
i didn' t mean to
riddle made me
harry you are hurt
don' t worry
ginny you need to get yourself out follow the chamber, and you will find ron
you were briliant , fawkes
i just wasn' t quick enough
of course
phoenix tears have healing powers thanks it' s all right , ginny it' s over it' s just memory amazing this is just like magic
you both realized , of course in the past few hours you' ve broken perhaps a dozen school rules yes , sir there are sufficient evidence to have you expelled yes , sir yes , sir therefore it is only fitting that you will both receive special awards |for services to the school
thanks , sir now , mr. weasley if you would have an hour to deliver this release paper to azkaban
i believe we want our gamekeeper back
harry
first , i want to thank you , harry you must' ve shown me the real loyalty down the chamber nothing but that could have called fawkes to you and second
i sense that something is troubling you am i right , harry ? it' s just you see , sir, i couldn' t help but notice certain thing , certain certain similarities between tom riddle and me
i see , well you can speak parseltongue , ?
harry , why ? because
lord voldemort can speak parseltongue if i am not mistaken , harry he transferred some of his powers to you |the night he gave you that scar .
voldemort transferred some of his powers to me ? not intentionally but yes so the sorting hat was right
i should be in slytherin it is true , harry it was just many qualities voldemort himself prizes determination , resourcefulness and if i may say so, |a certain disregard for rules , why then the sorting hat placed you in gryffindor because i asked it to exactly , harry ,
exactly it makes you different from voldemort it is not our abilities that show what we truly are it is our choices if you want proof why you belong to gryffindor and i suggest you look more closely at this
godric gryffindor it' d take a true gryffindor to pull out of that hat
dobby , so , this is your master your family you serve is malfoy' s
i will deal with you later
out of my way
potter so , it is true you have returned when the governors learned arthur weasley' s daughter| was taken into chamber , they saw fit to sending me back ridiculars curiously, lucius
several among them are under the impression that you would curse their families if they didn' t want to agree to suspend me in the first place . how dare you ? beg your pardon my sole concern has always been , and will always be the welfare of school and of course its students
the culprit has been identified
i would assume ? oh , yes and who was it ?
voldemort only this time he chosed to act through somebody else by means of this
i see fortuanately our young mr. potter discovered it one hopes that no more |of lord voldemore' s old school things should find their way into innocent hands , the consequence for the one responsible would be severe well , let' s just hope that mr. potter will always be around to save the day don' t worry
i will be
dumbledore come dobby, we leave here
sir , i wonder if i could have that
mr. malfoy
mr. malfoy
i have something of yours mine ?
i don' t know what are you talking about
i think you do , sir
i think you slipped the diary to ginny weasley' s cauldron , that day in diagon alley ? do you ?
why don' t you prove it ?
come , dobby open it
dobby master has given dobby a sock ! what ?
i didn' t master has presented dobby with cloth
dobby is free
you lost me my servant !
you shall not harm harry potter
you parents would middle some fools too mark my words ,
potter one day soon , you are going to be the same , stick it
harry potter freed dobby
how can dobby ever repay him ? just promise me something anything sir ... never try to save my life again
welcome back , sir nicholus thank you good evening , sir nicholus good evening good to see you , sir nicholus thank you hello
hermione welcome back thanks sir nicholus
harry it' s hermione
eh .... eh ... well ! welcome back , hermione it' s good to be back congratulations
i can' t believe you solved it well , we had loads of help from you we couldn' t have done it without you thanks could i have your attention please
before we begin the feast
let us have a round of applause for proffessor sprout
madam pomfrey whose mandrake juices' s been sowed successfully |and ministered to all who had been petrified
also , in the light of recent events as a school treat all exams have been cancelled
sorry
i am late
the owl that delivered my release papers got all lost and confused some bloody bird called eroll
i, now , just ought to say that, |if it hasn' t been for you , harry and ron and hermione , of course
i would , i' il be still , you know , where ...
i just like to say , thanks
it' s not hogwarts without you , hagrid
