harry potter and chamber of secret
i can' t not let you out , hedwig
i am not allowed to use magic outside of school . besides , if uncle vernin .....
harry potter !!! now , you' ve done it !
petunia !
i am warning you , if you can' t control that bloody bird, | it' il have to let it go but she' s bored if can only let her out an hour or two . ha ! so , you can send secret messages to your freaky little friends ? | no sir !! but i haven' t had any messages from any of my friends not one !
who want to be friends with you ?
i think you should be a little more grateful, | we raised you since you are a baby . give you the food on our table, |even you had the dudley' s second bed room, |purity of goodness of our hearts !
not now , pumpkin , look , mason' s will arrive
which should be any minute !
let' s go over our schedule once again , shall we ? |petunia, when the mason' s arrive, you will be ?
in the lounge , waiting to welcome them graciousily to our home good, dudley , you will be ?
i will be waiting to open the door
excellent !
and you ?
i will be in my bedroom making no noise and pretending i don' t even exist too right you will !
without any luck this could to do harm|to the biggest deal of my career , and you will not mess it up !
harry potter !
such an honor it is !
who are you ?
dobby , sir !
dobby , the house elf !
not to be rude or anything, |but it isn' t a great time for me to have a house elf in my bedroom
oh , yes sir , dobby understands ! it is just ... dobby have come to tell you it is difficult to, sir
dobby wander where it begin
why don' t you sit down ?
sit down !
sit down ?
oh ...... oh , dobby , shushi ... i am sorry, |i didn' t mean to offend you or anything
offend dobby ?
dobby has heard your greatness , sir but never has been asked to sit down by a wizard
like equal
you can' t have met many decent wizards then
no , i haven' t but it is an aweful thing to say
stop , dobby , stop !
dobby , please stop !
oh , don' t mind that , it' s just the cat !
stop , dobby , stop !
are you all right !
dobby have to punish himself , sir
dobby almost spoke ill of his family , sir
your family ?
the wizard family dobby serves , sir ...
dobby is bound to serve one house and one family forever , if he has ever knew dobby was here , oh ....
but dobby has to come, |dobby has to protect harry potter, to warn him
harry potter must not go back to hogwarts , the school of witchcraft and wizardry this year ! there is a plot a plot to make most terrible things happen
what terrible things ?
who' s plotting them ?
ah .. i ... can' t ... say !!!
ok , i understand you can' t say !
dobby , dobby , put the lamp down ! so , when there arrives nine folks can we go on ?
dobby , stop get in that and keep quiet ! what devil are you doing out there ?
i was just ....
you' ve just ruined the punch line of my japanese golfer joke sorry
one more sound and you' il wish you' d never been born , boy ! fix the door ! yes , sir
see why i' ve got to go back to hogwarts ?
i don' t belong here
i belong in your world , hogwarts it' s only place i got friends
friends who don' t even write to harry potter ? well , i expect they' ve just been ...
hang on , how do you know my friends haven' t been writing to me ?
harry potter mustn' t be angry with dobby .
dobby hoped ... if harry potter thought his friends had forgotten him ...
harry potter might not want to go back to school , sir . ..... give me those now !
no no dobby , come back here
dobby , please
no harry potter must say he is not going back to school
i can' t, hogwarts is my home then , dobby must do it , sir
for harry potter' s own good !
i am so sorry it' s my nephew , he is very disturbed ! we think strangers upset him , let we keep him upstairs
you are never going back to that school you are never going to see those freaky friends of yours again never
hi , harry !
ron ?
fred ?
george ?
what are you all doing here ?
rescuing you , of course !
come on , get your trunk !
better stand back drive !
let' s go !
are you hearing anything ? what' s it ?
potter !!!
come on , harry
petunia, he is escaping ! uncle , to heaven .... come out !
let go of me ! no , no , boy , you and that bloody pigeon ,
i am not , anywhere ! drive
not !
by the way , harry , happy birthday !
hi , come on
just think of if they are aware of this they wouldn' t , would they ?
it is not much ! but it' s home
i think it is briliant ! where have you been ?
harry , how wonderful to see you , dear beds are empty , no note , car gone , you could' ve be dying , you could' ve been seen
of course , i don' t blame you , harry , dear they were starving him , mom put bars in his window you best hope i don' t put bars on your window, ron and weasley come , harry , time to some breakfast
here we go , harry , not talking , that' s it , here we go
mom , have you seen my jumpa ? yes , it was on the cat hello
what did i do ?
ginny, she' s been talking about you all summer it' s getting annoy really
morning , weasleys !
morning
what a night, nine raids .
nine ! raids ?
daddy works in ministry of magic the misuse of muggle artifacts office .
dad loves muggles, he think they are facinating well done , ah ..... and , who are you ? oh , sorry , sir
i am harry , sir
harry potter good lord ! are you really ? well , ron' s told us all about you , of course ! when did you get here ? this morning your son flew in that enchanted car of yours to save him back last night did you really ? how did it go ?
i mean, that was very wrong, indeed, boys very wrong of you
now , harry
you must know all about muggles tell me , what' s exactly the function of a rubber duck ? oh, en ... that could the errol , the post oh, fetch it , percy , please
errol , he is always doing that oh , these are hogwarts ' letters oh and sent to harry as well
dumbledore must know you' re here , harry doesn' t miss the trick that man ? oh , no , this lot won' t come cheap , mom, |the speel book of lockhart are very expensive we' il manage, there' s only one place we can get all of this, |diagon alley
here we are , harry you go first , dear but harry' s never traveled by floo powder, mom floo powder ? oh , you go first, ron , then harry can see how it' s done and you go
diagon alley !
you see ? it' s quite easy don' t be afraid come come on and you go , let' s bow your head that' s fine take your floo powder that' s it , very good don' t forget to speak very very clearly
d dia gon alley
what did he say , dear ?
d dia gon alley
i thought he did
not lost , are you ? my dear
i am fine , thank you, i am just ... come with us we' il help you find your way back no , please
harry ?
hagrid ! ?
what d' yeh think yer doin ' down there ? come on
yer a mess , harry
skulkin ' around knockturn alley dodgy place don ' want no one ter see yeh down there, |people here are no good
i was lost by ...
hang on , what were you doing down there , then ? me ?
i was lookin ' fer a flesh eatin ' slug repellent
they' re ruinin ' the school cabbages .
harry , hagrid ! hello , hermione ! so good to see you ! it' s great to see you too ! what did you do to your glasses ? ok , let' s repair it
i definately need to remmeber that one you will be all right then , harry ? right , i will leave you two then oh , thank you , bye come on , every one is so worried
oh , harry , thank goodness, we hoped you' d only gone one grate too far .
ladies and gentlemen , this is gllderoy lockhart ah , here he is !
mom fancies him make way there please , let me by madem , thank you
excuse me , little girl , this for daily prophet it can' t be harry potter ?
harry , watch out , excuse me , mam
nice big smile , harry , to get you and i together on front page
ladies and gentlemen, what an extraordinary moment this is !
when young harry stepped into flourish and blotts this morning to purchase my autobiography , magical me which incidently is carried out to celerbrate its twenty seventh week top daily prophet best selling day he has no idea, that he wouldn' t in fact believing with my entire collected works free of charge oh .... now , ladies give me those , let me get them signed all of you wait outside , let' s drop
i bet you love that , didn' t you , potter ? famous harry potter, can' t even go into a bookshop without making the front page .
leave him alone
harry potter , you' ve got yourself a girlfriend not now, draco , be nicely it' s potter
lucius malfoy , we meet at last forgive me , your scar is legended as, of course , the wizard who gave to you
voldemort killed my parents he is nothing more than a murderer en , you must be very brave to mention his name or could be foolish fearful name only creats a fearful thing itsself and you must be mrs granger yes , draco told me all about you and your parents
muggles , aren' t they ?
let me see , red hair , vacant expressions , secondhand book you must be with weasley' s children , it' s smelling in here , let' s go outside .
well , well , well , weasley' s here now
lucius this is time of ministry , arthur , with all those raids
i do hope they' re paying you overtime ? |no judge like state of this, i' d say , no , what' s the use of being a disgrace to the name of wizard|if they don' t even pay you well for it ?
we have a very different idea|of what disgraces the name of wizard, malfoy clearly , associating with muggles
i thought your family could sink no lower
i' il see you at work see you at school
10 : 58 , come on , come on, train will be leaving any moment train , george , percy , you first
after you , dear come on , ginny , get your seat , hurry
let' s go
ai , what do you think you are doing ? sorry
lost control of trolley why can' t we get through
i don' t know , the gateway sealed itself for some reason the train leaves at exactly 11 clock , we missed it
harry , if we can' t through , maybe mom and dad can' t get back maybe we just go to wait by the car the car
ron , i should tell you
most muggles aren' t customed to see a flying car eh , right
oh , no, the invisibility booster must be faulty oh , come then , let' s go lower we need to find the train ok
now all we need to do is catching with the train can' t be far behind can you hear that ? must be getting close hold on
harry , hold on
take my hand hold on
i am trying your hand on sweating
i think we found the train yeah
welcome home !
up up it' s not working try that tree ! stop , stop , stop !
my wand ....
look at my wand thanks this wand for your neck what' s happenning ?
i don' t know
come on , go , fast
scabbers , you are ok ?
the car ...
dad gonna kill me
see you , hedwig . wait so , a house elf shows up in my bedroom we can' t get through the barrier to get platform nine and three quarters we almost get killed by a tree clearly someone just want me hurt this year
well , take a good look , lads this night might well be the last you spend in this castle oh , dear , we are in trouble you were seen by no less than 7 muggles do you have any idea how serious this is ? you have risked to expose our world not to mention that damage and inflict on whomping willow|which is on the ground since before you were born
honestly , professor snape
i think it did more damage to us
silence !
i will assure you , were you in slytherin and your fate rested with me the both of you would be on the train home tonight ! as it is they are not
professor dumbledore
professor mcgonagall
headmaster these boys have flouted the decree for the restriction of underage wizardry , as such
i well aware of our rules, severus have reading quite a few of them myself en , but their head are in gryffindor house it is for professor mcgonagall|to determine the appropriate action we' re going to get our stuff then what are you talking about ?
mr. weasley ? you are going to expel us , aren' t you ?
not today , mr. weasley but i must impress on both of you the seriousness of what you have done
i' il be writing to your families tonight and you' il both receive detention
good morning every one ! good morning , professor sprout welcome to greenhouse three second year gather around , now , everyone today, we are going to repot mandrakes .
now , who can tell me the properties of the mandrake root ?
yes , mrs granger ?
mandrake , or mandragora
it is used to return those who have been petrified to their original state it is also quite dangerous, |mandrake cry' s fatal to anyone who hears it ,
excellent
ten points to gryffindor now , as our mandrakes are still only seedlings their crys won' t kill you yet but they will knock you out several hours that' s why i give each of you a pair of earmuffs for all of your protections , so could you please put them on right away quickly flats tight down watch me closely you grasp your mandrake firmly you pull it sharply out of pot go get it , and now you dump it down to other pot and pour it little sprinky soil till it can' t move ah , longbottom' s been neglecting his earmuffs no , mam , he is just fainted ah , as well , let' s leave him back right , here we go plenty pots to go around grasp your mandrake and pull it up
hey , is that nearly headless , isn' t it ? hello , percy !
mr clearwater hello , headless nicholas
say it , i am doomed you' re doomed hey , harry
i' m colin creevey
i' m in gryffindor , too . hey , colin , nice to meet you
ron , is that your owl ?
bloody bird , it is a mess
oh , no
look , every one , weasley got himself a howler go on , ron , i ignored one from my gran once , it was horrible
what a weasley !
how dare you steal that car ?
i am absolutely dlsgustlng
your father is now faclng an inqulry at work
and it' s entlrely your fault !
if you put another toe out of llne
we' ll brlng you stralght home .
oh , ginny dear , congratulations on making gryffindor your father and i are so proud of it
let me introduce you to your new defense against dark art teacher me
gilderoy lockhart
order of merlin , third class
honorary member of the dark force defense league, |and five time winner of witch weekly' s most charming smile award but i don' t talk about that
i didn' t get rid of the bandon banshee by smiling at her !
now , be warned
it is my job to arm you against|the foulest creatures known to wizardkind !
you may find yourselves facing your worst fears in this room .
know only that no harm can befall you whilst i am here .
i must ask you not to scream it might provoke them
cornish pixies
freshly caught cornish pixies .
lots of you aren' t fear of them, |the pixies can be devilish tricky little blighters
let' s see what you make of them !
come on now round them up , round them up, |they' re only pixies
hey , please , get me down get off me , stop , stop , hold still
peskipiksi pesternomi !
well , i' il ask you three to just nip the rest of them back into their cage . what we do now ?
immobilas
why it is always me ?
i spent this summer devising an all new quidditch program we are going to train earlier harder , and longer what ?
i don' t believe it what do you think you are going ?
flint
quidditch practice
i booked the patch for gryffindor today easy, woods , i' ve got note oh , a small trouble
i , professor severus snape , hereby give the slytherin team permission to practice today owing to the need to train their new seeker . you got new seeker , who ?
malfoy ? that' s right, that' s not always you want to see it those are nimbus two thousand and ones , how did you get those ? gift from draco' s father you see , weasley , unlike some my father can afford the best
at least no one on the gryffindor team had to buy their way in
they got in on pure talent .
no one asked your opinion you filthy little mudblood you will pay for that one , malfoy , eat slugs
you ok ?
ron ? say something
well , can you turn around , harry no , colin , get out the way
let' s take him to hagrid how long it' il do ?
opps , this calls the real special equipment
nothing to do but wait for it to stop, i am afraid
better out than in , who' s he tried to curse , anyway ?
malfoy he called hermione
a ... , well, i don' t know exactly what it means
he called me mudblood he did not what' s mudblood ? it means dirty blood
mudblood' s a really foul name for someone who is muggle born some one with no magic parents some one like me it' s sort of tongue when you usually hear stuff in conversation so thing is , harry there are some wizards like malfoy' s family who think they' re better than everyone else|because they' re what people call pure blood it' s horrible it' s disgusting aren' t just call what up to birth dirty blood, |there is no wizard alive day that is no halfblood or less more to the point , not yet a sigle spell our hermione can ' do come here don' t you think on it , hermione don' t you think on it for one minute
harry , harry , harry , can you possibly imagine ? a better way to serve the detention ? by helping me to answer my fan mail ? not really
fame' s a fickle friend , harry
celebrity is as celebrity does remember that
let me rip you .... |let me tear you ....
let me kill you . . ]
what ? sorry ? that voice voice ? didn' t you hear it ? what are you talking about ?
harry are you getting a lit bit drowsy ?
great scott no wonder , look at the time ! |we' ve been here nearly four hours ! spooky , how the time flys when we' re having fun
spooky
harry ! did you hear it ? hear what ? that voice voice ? what voice ?
i heard it first at lockhart office , then again , it just it' s moving
i think it' s gonna kill kill ?
harry , wait , don' t be so fast
strange
i' ve never seen spiders act like that
i don' t like spiders
what' s that ? the chamber of secret has been opened enemies of the heir ... be ware it' s written in blood
oh , no
it' s filth' s cat , mrs. norris
enemies of heir , be ware you' il be the next , mudblood what' s going on there ? go out of my way , my way , my way
potter ? what do you ......
that' s mrs. norris you murdered my cat no , no
i' il kill ya
i' il kill ya !
argus !
argus !
every one will proceed to dormitory immediately , every one , except , you three ... gryffindors , follow me ...
she is not dead , argus she has been petrified ah , potter, so unluck i wasn' t there
i know the exact the countercurse that could' ve spare her but how she' s been petrified , i can not say ask him he must' ve done it , you saw what he wrote on the wall it is not true , sir , i swear
i' ve never touch mrs. norris rubbish
if i might , headmaster ? perhaps potter and his friends were simply in the wrong place|at the wrong time however the circumstances are suspicious i , for one , don' t recall seeing potter at dinner
i am afraid that' s my doing , severus you see , harry' s helping answer my fan mail that' s why ron and i' re looking for him, professor we just found when he said yes , mrs granger ? when i said i wasn' t hungry we were heading back to common room when we found mrs. norris innocent until proven guilty, severus my cat has been petrified
i want to see some punishment we will be able to cure her, argus
as i understand
madem sprout has very healthy grown mandrake with which all the potion will be made, |we will revive mrs. norris at the mean time , i strongly recommend caution to all
it' s bit strange , isn' t it ? strange ? you heard the voice , the voice only you can hear, |and mrs. norris turned out petrified it' s just strange do you think i should' ve told them, |dumbledore and others , i mean are you mad ? no, harry , even in the wizard world, |hearding voices isn' t a good sign
she is right , you know
could i have your attention please ? right , now , today we will be transforming animals into water goblets
like this, 1 , 2 , 3 fetherfethertol now , it' s your turn well , who would like to go first oh , mr. weasley , 1 , 2 , 3 , fetherfethertol
fethervertol
that one need replacing ,
mr. weasley yes , mrs granger professor , i was wondering
if you can tell us, about, the chamber of secret
very well , you all knew , of course
hogwart was founded over thousands years ago|by the four greatest wizards and witches of age
godric gryffindor , helga hufflepuff, |rowena ravenclaw , and salazar slytherin .
three of the founders concensused quite harmoniously one did not , so we guess it is who
slytherin wished to be more selective about the students admitted to hogwarts .
he believed that magical learning should be kept within all magic families . in another words , pure blood unable to persuade others , he desided to leave the school now , according to legend
slytherin had built a hidden chamber in this castle known as the chamber of secret though shockly , before departed , he sealed it until that time when his own true heir returned to the school the heir alone will be able to open the chamber and unleash the horror within , and by so doing to purge the school of all those who|in slytherin' s view were unworthy to study magic . muggleborn
naturally, the school has been searched many times no such chamber has been found professor what' s exactly the legend tell us the light in the chamber ? the chamber is said to be home to something that only the heir of slytherin can control it is said to be the home of a monster
so it is true , she told us there is really a chamber of secret yes , could you tell ?
mcgonagall' s worried and all the teachers are and if there is really a chamber of secret |and really hasn' t been opened that means , the heir of slytherin has returned hogwart the question is , who is it ? that' s stink, who do we know who thinks all muggleborns are scums if you' re talking about malfoy of course , you heard him you' il be next, mudbloods !
i heard him but, malfoy , the heir of slytherin ? maybe ron is right , hermione
i mean , look at his family, the whole lot of them have been in slytherin for centuries
crabbe and goyle must know, maybe we can trick him to tell them even they aren' t that pig , but there might be another way remind you , it would be difficult not mention we' il break about 50 school rules and it' il be dangerous very dangerous
here it is
polyjuice potion . properly brewed polyjuice potion allows the drinker|to transform himself temporaly into phisical form of other here, you know, if harry and i drink that stuff we' il turn to crabbe and goyle yes you kidding ..
malfoy' il tell us anything exactly but truth is i' ve never see a more complicated potion eh , well , how long will it take to make ? a month a month but , hermione , if malfoy is the heir of slytherin, |he could' ve attacked half muggleborns in the school by then
i know but it' s the only plan we got
another ball for slytherin they lead gryffindor 90 to 30
all right there ,
scarhead ?
watch yourself , harry wood , look out
hermione
harry got himself a wild bludger
let' s be tempered , we said , us no , stop it no , even with proper one is too risky even with proper one is too risky you could hurt harry
training for the ballet , potter ?
you gonna catch me ?
potter ?
let' s go
harry potter caught the snitch , gryffindor win !
thank you are you ok ? no , i think my arm broke do not worry , harry
i will fix that of your arms straight away no , not you you don' t know what are you saying ... now this won' t hurt a bit
brakyamy imendo
ah, yes , well , that can sometimes happen but the point is you can no longer feel any pain and very clearly , the bones are not broken broken ? there is no bones left much more flexible though oh , mr malfoy i will make things as fast as you can go out my way , out my way
you should have come straight to me !
i can mend bones in a hard speed but growing them back
you will be able to , won' t you ?
i' il be able to , certainly , but it will be painful
you' re in for a rough night , potter regrowing bones is a nasty bussiness what do you expect ?
pumkin juice ?
hello
dobby ?
harry potter should' ve listened to dobby
harry potter should' ve gone back home when he missed the train it was you, you stopped the barrier|from letting ron and me through !
indeed , yes , sir you nearly got ron and me expelled at least you would be away from here
harry potter must go home
dobby thought his bludger would be enough|to make harry potter see the ... your bludger ? you made that bludger chase after me ?
dobby feels the most grief , sir
dobby had to iron his hands
you' d better clear off before my bones come back , dobby, |or i might strangle you .
dobby is used to death threats , sir .
dobby gets them five times a day at home .
i don' t suppose you could tell me why you tried to kill me ? not kill you , sir , never kill you
dobby remmeber harry potter before harry potter trumphed over|he who must not be named
we house elfs were treated like vermin , sir !
of course , dobby is still treated like vermin ah .. ah ....
why do you wear that thing , dobby ?
this , sir ?
this a mark of the house elf' s enslavement
dobby can only be freed if his masters present him with clothes
listen , listen , terrible thing is about to happen in hogwart
harry potter must not stay here
now , that history is to repeat itself repeat itself , you mean this ' happened before ? eh i shouldn' t have said that bad dobby stop stop , stop , dobby tell me , dobby when did this happen before ? who is doing it now ?
dobby can not say , sir
dobby only want harry potter to be safe no , dobby , tell me , who is it ?
put him here what happened ? there' s been another attack
i think , do you know, i think he' s been petrified, madam pomfrey . you don' t think perhaps he managed to get a picture of his attacker ?
what can this mean , albus ? it means our students are in great danger what you have to tell the staff ? the truth , tell them , the hogwart is no longer safe it is as we feared , meanever that the chamber of secrets has indeed been opened again .
again ? you mean the chamber of secret had been opened before ? of course don' t you see ?
lucius malfoy must' ve opened the chamber|when he was at school here now he' s told draco how to do it maybe , but we have to wait polyjuice potion to make sure and why it' s me , why are we brewing this potion|in poor daylight in the middle of girl' s never treat don' t you think we' il get caught ? no no one ever comes in here why ?
moaning myrtle who ?
moaning myrtle who is moaning myrtle ?
i am moaning myrtle
i wouldn' t expect you to know me who would ever talk about ugly, miserable, moping , moaning myrtle ?
she is a little sensitive gather around , gather around , can everybody see me ? can you all hear me ? excellent in lights of dark events of recent weeks professor dumbledore has granted me permission to start this little dueling club , to train you all up in case you ever need to defend yourselves as i myself have done on countless occasions to full details, | see my published works
let me introduce my assistant professor snape he has sportingly agreed to help me with a short demonstration
now , i don' t want any of you youngsters to worry you' il still have your potions master when i' m through with him , never fear !
1, 2, 3
expelliarmus !
do you think he is all right ? who cares ? an excellent idea to show them that, professor snape , |but if you don' t mind my saying it was pretty obvious what you were about to do .
if i had wanted to stop you it would have been only too easy perhaps it would be prudent to first teach the student to block unfriendly spell , professor
excellent suggestion , professor snape
let' s have volunteer pair potter, weasley , how about you ?
weasley is one causes devastation with simpliest spell who sent harry potter to hospital wing in match box may i suggest some one from my own house ?
malfoy ? perhaps ?
good luck , potter yea, sir
wands at ready scared ?
potter you wish
on the count of three cast your charms to disarm your opponents only to disarm we don' t want any accidents here 1, 2
ivertasvaty
rictusempra !
i said disarm only
serpensortia !
don' t move , potter
i get rid of it for you allow me , professor snape
wolatlousenduly
sayasasi
syaslhals
syaslhals
iparalapyske
what are you playing at
you' re a parselmouth .
why didn' t you tell us ?
i am a what ? you can talk to snakes ?
i know , i mean i accidentally set a boa constrictor |on my cousin dudley at the zoo once , once , so what ?
i bet loads of people here can do it .
no they can' t, it' s not a very common gift .
harry this is bad what' s bad ? if i hadn' t told that snake not to attack justin
oh , that' s what you said to it ? you were there , you heard me
i heard you speaking parseltongue , snake language
i spoke in different language ? but i didn' t realize it how could i speak a language without knowing i can
i don' t how it does , but sound like you acted signal or something
harry , listen to me as the vision symbol of slytherin house is a serpent .
salazar slytherin was a parselmouth , he could talk to snakes too exactly
and now the whole school' s going to think you' re |his great great great great grandson or something but i am not it can' t be , he lived thousands years ago , for we know , you could be
see you back in common room
