it' s like this .
a dead plaintiff is rarely worth as much as a living , severely maimed plaintiff .
however , if it' s a long , agonizing death , as opposed to a quick drowning or car wreck , the value can rise considerably .
a dead adult in his 20s is generally worth less than one who is middle aged , a dead woman less than a dead man , a single adult less than one who' s married , black less than white , poor less than rich .
but the perfect victim is a white male professional , 40 years old , at the height of his earning power , struck down in his prime .
and the most imperfect ?
well , in the calculus of personal injury law , a dead child is worth the least of all .
a million dollars he turns down .
one million dollars !
i don' t believe that story for a second .
it' s true .
come on !
hey , eddie .
how you doing ?
good .
do me a favor , will you ?
shut the fuck up .
that' s our banker over there , keeping an eye on the collateral .
he doesn' t know jan turned down a million .
sorry .
yeah .
asshole .
how' s your head ?
up ?
how' s that ?
ok ?
are you comfortable ?
open ?
here we go .
all rise .
this court is now in session .
the honorable constance mullen presiding .
would you like some water ?
carney versus massachusetts general hospital case number 812725 .
attorneys , please state your appearance .
randolph woodside , mass general .
greg monk , massachusetts general hospital .
harold peshniak , mass general .
jan schlichtmann for paul carney .
kevin conway for mr carney , your honor .
mr schlichtmann , the court' s ready for your opening statement .
your honor , if it please the court , the parties involved have agreed to a settlement .
personal injury law has a bad reputation .
they call us ambulance chasers , bottom feeders , vultures who prey on the misfortunes of others .
if that' s true , why do i lie awake worrying about my clients ?
why does their pain become my pain ?
i wish i could find some way not to empathize .
it' d be a lot easier .
we' re speaking to jan schlichtmann , personal injury attorney and according to boston magazine ... have you seen this ? ... one of boston' s ten most eligible bachelors .
let' s go back to the phones .
woburn , you' re on the air .
hello , mr schlichtmann , it' s anne anderson .
hello , anne .
how are you ?
very well .
how are you ?
sounds pretty .
how come you never call me ?
believe me , if i had your number , i would call you .
you do have it .
i do ?
you have no idea who i am ?
is this ricky ?
no .
you see , my son died of leukemia two years ago , mr schlichtmann .
your firm is handling the case .
we are ?
uh huh .
the reason i' m calling you here is because my calls to your offices have gone unreturned for the last several weeks now .
i' m sorry , what was your name ?
anne .
anne ...
anderson .
i' m writing that down as we speak .
i' m gonna take care of this .
hey , i have an idea ...
why don' t you come up to woburn one of these days and actually meet a few of those people whose pain is your pain ... ... jan ?
let me try and picture how this happened .
she called you , she cried .
you felt sorry for her and you cried .
and now she' s mad at me .
now that makes sense .
this is a good case .
she' s not crying now !
an orphan , but a good one .
12 deaths over 15 years from leukemia eight of them children .
is that unusual ?
apparently , statistically .
it' s a very small town .
this woman lost a child ?
they think it has something to do with the city' s drinking water which they say has always tasted funny .
what was she like before ?
i' d like to know that .
do want to hear what it' s about ?
no , i don' t !
i' d ...
i' d like to hear about it .
thank you , kathy .
there' s a report here from state inspectors that says that the water from two city wells is contaminated ... or was before they shut them down ... with something called ...
i can' t pronounce this ... trichlorethylene ... ethylene , which the epa lists as a probable carcinogen .
no , no , no .
let me stop you right there .
there' s more .
i don' t need to hear it .
from a financial standpoint , i can tell you right now , this is not a sound investment .
probable is just a euphemism for unproven .
to prove something like this , you need new medical research .
is that our business we' re in , the medical research business ?
and ... and you have to ask yourself , why is this an orphan ?
why has it been kicked from firm to firm before it ended up on your desk .
gordon' s right .
i can appreciate the theatrical value of several dead kids .
i like that , obviously .
that' s good .
that' s all this case has going for it .
that' s not enough
i' il get rid of it .
i' il ... just go up there and ...
and then she' il start to cry again and then you' il start to cry again and she' il be mad at me again , so i' il do it .
i' il get rid of it .
give it to me .
thank you .
there you go , sir .
thank you .
drive careful now .
oh yeah .
when i stand on my front porch ,
i can see all the houses where children have died .
these are the kanes , the toomeys , the zohners , the robbins and the aufieros .
now , i want to be clear .
i' m not interested in money ... none of us are , that' s not why we' re doing this .
what we want is to know what happened .
and we want an apology .
from who ?
from whoever did this .
i want somebody to come to my house , knock on the door and say , " we' re responsible .
we did this .
we didn' t mean it , but we did it and we' re sorry .
but who is that ?
well , we don' t know .
mrs anderson , our firm is very small , three attorneys , that' s it .
which means that we can only take so many cases at once and we have to be very careful about the ones we do because , frankly , we can' t afford to lose .
our clients pay nothing , we pay everything , we only get paid back if we win or settle .
i know that .
you want an apology .
and there' s nothing more i' d like to do than to get you that apology , but from who ?
who is going to apologize to you and pay me ?
there has to be a defendant and one with very deep pockets .
this is not an inexpensive case to try .
there' s an old tannery out there .
a tannery ?
and some other small factories .
i really wish i could help you but i can' t .
i' m sorry .
maybe you could go out there for just a few minutes , to the river , to the wells , and take a look .
for what ?
what would that ... what would that accomplish ?
i do hope you find someone .
and i am sorry .
thank you very much .
drive carefully .
it was fate .
i was meant to get that ticket , at that moment , at that exact spot in the road .
do you know who beatrice is ?
peter pan peanut butter ,
tropicana orange juice ,
rosarita mexican food ,
swiss miss cocoa , samsonite luggage , playtex bras ...
the list goes on !
and the other one ?
w. r. grace .
chemicals and manufacturing with plants in two dozen states ,
south america , europe and japan .
what' s this ?
that' s the ticket .
no , i' ve got the speeding ticket right here .
i know , i got two speeding tickets .
oh , it was a two ticket town , like that other place .
exactly .
you don' t want to take your caddie there .
kevin , this is a gold mine .
you almost let it get away .
i almost let it get away .
lawsuits are war ... it' s as simple as that .
and they begin the same way , with a declaration of war the complaint .
when you' re a small firm and they' re a big one , steeped in history and wealth , like they always are with their persian carpets on the floor and their harvard diplomas hanging on the walls , it' s easy to be intimidated .
don' t ... that' s what they want .
that' s what they expect , like all bullies .
that' s how they win .
i don' t run away from bullies .
mr facher ...
mr doyle asked me to bring this to you .
when ?
when did he ask me ?
yeah .
just now .
on your lunch break ?
that hardly seems fair .
i almost never go to lunch , sir .
too much to do .
i just grab something .
you know , if i were you , i' d make a point of taking an hour or so away from all the noise and insanity in this place .
i should do that .
i' d find a place for myself where i could go that was relatively quiet and peaceful , have a sandwich , read a magazine .
maybe listen to a game out at fenway if one was on .
i' d make sure everyone knew i didn' t want to be disturbed me during that hour or so of solitude .
because that would be my time my own private time , which no one , if they had any sense of self preservation at all , would dare interrupt .
if i were you .
i' m sorry .
jesus .
jesus !
jesus ...
mr facher , it' s bill cheeseman foley , hoag and elliot .
we represent new york grace .
how you doing ?
well , all right , i guess , under the circumstances .
what circumstances are those ?
woburn ... these outrageous charges .
this bloodsucking ambulance chaser , schlichtmann .
who ?
we' re co defendants in a lawsuit , mr facher , a very serious lawsuit .
what ?
what is that thumping ?
yeah , well , it' s gone now .
it was driving me crazy !
ah , listen , i was wondering if i could talk to you about something .
do you think we could get together for a drink or a ...
what' s on your mind ?
well , i' il tell you what i' m thinking .
are you familiar with rule 11 ?
with what ?
rule 11 , it' s a civil provision designed to prevent frivolous and irresponsible lawsuits like this one , and to sanction quite severely those who file them .
mr ...
cheeseman .
cheeseman , is it ?
mr cheeseman .
what is a fine ?
when you get a fine what do you do ?
you pay it and go back to business .
if you' re gonna knock a guy down , do it so he can' t get up again .
what are you looking for with this suit ?
well , obviously , we' il be seeking compensation for the families and punitive damages for the willful negligence of these two companies .
but is that what this is really all about ... money ?
no .
is that what matters most to any of us ?
no .
it' s about this .
and this .
and this .
yeah .
yeah , i know , we have no feelings , no compassion , no empathy for our clients ' suffering .
can i say something ?
what does that have to do with anything ?
in fact the lawyer who shares his client' s pain , in my opinion , does his client such a grave disservice he should have his licence to practice law taken away .
it clouds his judgement , and that' s as beneficial to his client as a doctor who recoils at the sight of blood .
all rise .
this court is now in session .
the honorable walter j skinner presiding .
is this the only case ?
this is a lot of lawyers .
sit down .
mr facher .
your honor .
you' re looking well .
the red sox must be in first place .
roger clemens is the answer to my prayers .
you have some interest in this case ?
i' m a co defendant , so i guess i do have an interest , but it' s not my motion .
it' s foley hoag' s .
and that motion is ?
your honor , if i might .
my name is jan schlichtmann .
i know .
sit down .
now , the matter before us seems to be a simple one .
your honor , i' m sorry but i don' t think it is simple .
may i hear it ?
no , you see the true intention of this motion is to try to place me under a cloud of impropriety in your courtroom , right from the beginning .
really ?
yes .
what they' re saying with this motion is that they know the law and i don' t .
what they' re saying is that they' re real lawyers and i' m not .
they' re just trying to humiliate me .
mr schlichtmann , you are a personal injury lawyer , are you not ?
i think you' il survive that .
you see ?
it' s starting already .
no , you' ve started already .
i' m on the defensive already and they' re the defendants .
mr schlichtmann ...
do you think i might at least hear this motion before you explain to me what it' s really about ?
of course .
thank you .
now , mr ...
cheeseman , is it ?
your motion to dismiss is based on ?
rule 11 , your honor .
specifically on the fact that mr schlichtmann had absolutely no evidential grounds on which to bring this suit only his knowledge that my client , the w. r. grace corporation , has a lot of money .
not true .
he performed no real investigation , he did no research of any consequence , except perhaps to review profit statements .
and he' s prepared his complaint so inexpertly as to render it moot .
all untrue .
do you know what rule 11 is , mr schlichtmann ?
well , to be honest with you , your honor , i had to look it up .
i' il be honest , too .
so did i. do you know why , mr cheeseman ?
because it is so old and ambiguous few lawyers waste their time with it , or mine .
it' s a non issue , mr cheeseman .
your motion is denied .
thank you .
thank you .
anything else ?
no , your honor .
set a trial date .
excuse me , mr facher .
i' d like to thank you .
that was very statesman like of you not to join that ridiculous attack .
you' re welcome .
well , what we have to do is to show how the toxic solvents these two factories dumped on the land there , migrated underground and were drawn into the city wells here and well h over there , and was then pumped into the homes of east woburn .
right .
and to do that , it' s quite simple , really
i' il need to inspect the land , map out the location of debris , drill some monitoring wells , conduct seismic tests , and so on .
and you' re talking about you and a couple of assistants , or something ?
no .
i mean a team of geologists and engineers .
a team ?
a big team .
you see it' s actually quite exciting because the nature of the contour here means there' s an effect which is named after me , as a matter of fact , where the flow of the aquifer goes against the gravitational pull ...
in the grace paintshop , mr roberts , i imagine you used paint thinners and solvents to clean your brushes and things ?
i wonder what you would' ve done with that stuff , let' s say , back in the 1970s or early ' 80s ?
used solvent ?
yeah .
put it in drums .
35 gallon drums ?
and , er , what would you do with those drums when they were filled up ?
don' t know .
they were just gone ?
never noticed .
you never dumped them out back ?
no .
never did anything like that ?
never noticed anyone who did ?
no .
just disappeared ...
what were your duties at grace back then , mr shalline ?
oversee disposal and discharge to the drains .
be sure we weren' t polluting the air , things of that nature
well then you must know then that , over the years , certain chemicals were deposited on the ground in the back of the plant
i don' t know that .
six barrels of toxic waste , mr shalline , were found out in the back of the plant in a pit and were exhumed by city inspectors .
you never heard anything about this ?
no .
back then in 1965 or thereafter did you clean metal parts with any type of solvent ?
yes .
what kind ?
that i couldn' t tell you .
did you ever notice the name trichlorethylene or tce ?
no , i don' t know .
but you' d put it in barrels when you were done with it , that seems to be the process , right ?
yes .
did you ever see what happened to these barrels of solvent when you were through with them ?
yes .
what was that ?
they get dumped .
where ?
out back , in the ground .
you saw this ?
yes .
when ?
my coffee break .
i would go out and hit nine iron shots with golf balls .
do you want to take a little break ?
do you need a break ?
no .
did you see who was out there dumping the stuff when you were hitting your golf balls ?
what do you mean ?
the names of people .
he wants to tell us .
he' s not going to tell us .
he has to work there .
he has to work there but he lives across the street from anne anderson .
he has to see her every day .
mr love , do you have any children ?
yes , i do .
eight of them .
eight ?
my goodness !
that' s quite a family .
what do you think of the water in woburn ?
now ?
it' s all right .
what about then , 10 , 15 years ago ?
it had an odor then .
chlorine or something .
did you drink it ?
yeah , i drank it .
the kids ?
yes .
were you concerned when you found out that the wells were contaminated ?
i' m going to object to that .
you don' t ... you don' t have to answer that .
yeah , i was concerned .
for your family' s health ?
yes .
has any member of your family had any illness out of the ordinary ?
you don' t have to answer any of these type of questions .
yeah , they have .
what kind ?
one of my sons has a seizure disorder , my eldest daughter has had two miscarriages and my youngest boy was born with ...
are we going to sit here all day and go through his entire family' s medical history ?
well if you don' t want to hear it then leave .
i don' t know what you' re doing here anyway .
we' re deposing grace employees , not beatrice .
if you' re deposing anybody , anybody , i have a right to be here .
well then sit down and shut up !
mr love , are you aware that some of your neighbors have had leukemia in their families ?
yes , i am .
they think it' s the water .
al , that water hasn' t made anybody sick .
how do you know ?
i just do .
there' s a lot of people in my neighborhood that are dead , or dying , mr chessman , from something .
look , if i took a hundred pennies and threw them up in the air , about half of them would land heads and the other half tails , right ?
now , if i looked around closely , i' d probably find some heads grouped together in a cluster .
what does that mean ?
does that mean anything ?
you see , no one knows what causes leukemia , al .
no one knows what caused that cluster .
i know what happened .
and i know who did it .
al , this is very important .
i want you to tell me who those people are .
i' m not a rat .
you know , it' s important , because if there is something wrong out there , we need to disclose it to the proper authorities .
we need to get them out there and have it cleaned up .
you think about that and call me if you ...
yeah .
yeah .
do you eat peanut butter ?
no .
you' ve never eaten peanut butter ?
i guess everyone alive has probably tried it , but i' m not exactly what you' d call a peanut butter fan .
what about your son ?
did he ever eat peanut butter ?
do you eat bacon ?
yes .
yes .
how often ?
how many slices ?
do you have teflon pans in your kitchen ?
do you chew sugarless gum ?
do you pump your own gas ?
do you use hair spray ?
do you use artificial sweeteners ?
smoke cigarettes ?
drink diet soda ?
use tampons ?
do you ever have your clothes dry cleaned ?
do you have silver fillings in your teeth ?
so , you were aware when you moved to woburn that its water didn' t taste good .
yeah , but a lot of places the water doesn' t taste so good .
i agree with that .
did you ever consider using bottled water ?
we used bottled water off and on , split half and half .
like ... we cooked with regular water ... tap water .
we did other things , like make orange juice .
but to ... drink just straight water , we drank bottled water .
has any doctor ever told you that you had any dysfunction of your immune system ?
no .
but when my son died , they told us that was why he died .
his immune system was ... tore down to nothing .
why did you have an autopsy ?
because he was doing good .
he only lived three months with leukemia and he looked fine .
did you talk to the doctor about this ?
i had more like a violent talk with him .
" violent " ?
you were angry ?
yelling at him .
your son seemed to be doing all right .
he was in remission ?
you were optimistic about his future and suddenly he became ill and died .
and they said that was expected ... that anybody with a disease like leukemia could die any minute .
but you were angry and upset .
my son just died .
i understand , i' m just trying to ... to recreate the event .
you can tell when your child isn' t feeling well .
you try to explain on the phone and they say , " has he got a temperature ?
you say , " no . " " he' s all right , then , " they say .
don' t worry , bring him into the clinic monday morning .
he died monday morning .
he was in the clinic when he died ?
no .
he was in the car , on the way .
he died in the car on the way to the clinic ?
he died on i 93 , up by the somerville exit .
my wife was yelling that he' d stopped breathing .
i pulled over and tried to give him cpr .
i was ...
i was holding him in my lap .
lauren was ... screaming .
cars and trucks rushing by .
and ... she helped ...
i' m sorry .
it' s all right .
it' s ok .
these people can never testify .
no .
that' s about right .
we' il have the first seven monitor wells in this , kind of , area , in the permeable rock here .
all right .
there' s seven ?
yes .
i did say initially there' d be only seven .
i think now it' s more likely that we' re going to have probably 12 , because ...
hey !
hey !
private property .
yes , this is your property .
yes , it' s my property and you' re trespassing .
here you go .
what the fuck is this ?
that' s a court order , mr riley , which means that i have the right to be here on your land , and to inspect every inch of your tannery , as well .
no , no , you keep that .
that' s your copy .
let' s go .
i started working when i was seven years old , sweeping the beam house floors for my father , which he swept for his father when he was seven years old .
which my boys ...
i know .
they swept it , too .
please answer the question i asked , not one i didn' t .
silicone , mr riley , and trichlorethylene .
these two chemicals mixed together are used to waterproof leather , are they not ?
i asked you a question , mr riley ... again .
mr facher , please inform your client that he' s obligated to answer my question .
let the record show that the witness has emptied a glass of water on the conference table .
what exactly do you intend to say to me , mr riley , by pouring water on my table ?
this is how silicone is put on leather to waterproof it .
i' m answering your question .
it' s poured on , like you poured water on my table .
yeah .
correct .
so some of it must spill off the leather ,
like the water spilling off my table ... and onto my rug .
that' s the part i' m interested in .
the spilled silicone and trichlorethylene , sir , how you disposed of that .
i never once used tce .
tce ?
did i say tce ?
i didn' t say tce .
i said trichlorethylene .
you said tce as it is commonly known ... to those who know it .
mr riley , you wouldn' t you mind if i checked your statements today against your office records , would you ?
your invoices , purchase orders and formulas ?
no .
be my guest .
they go back ... three years .
everything before that , we dumped .
jan , you' re not listening .
i am listening .
you' ve been out there three times and nothing .
i know why you find this unacceptable .
it' s just that you don' t know what it' s like out there .
riley is woburn .
he' s been there for ever .
his employees are like loyal subjects .
none of them will talk .
ex employees , that' s who you should be talking to .
disgruntled employees ... disloyal subjects ... they talk .
so you want me to go back out there ?
this is the case against beatrice , this liar .
you go back out there and catch him in a lie .
you got the rest of the medical records ?
almost .
i can' t the complete records on the ...
just get it .
this figure here , this $100 an hour for dr cohen , that seems more than fair , considering his pre eminence .
that' s for his nights in the hotel , jan
that' s his discount sleeping rate .
your doctors have cost us more than 900, 000 so far .
well , they' re worth it .
your geologists have cost more than 500, 000 .
well they' re worth it .
that' s not the point .
the point is , everybody in the firm' s working only on this case .
that means we have no money coming in ... just going out .
so what , what , you want to cut our losses now ?
is that what you want to do , gordon ?
you want to just get out now and throw away 900 and ... what is it ?
1 . 4 million dollars .
goodnight .
well i don' t know what to tell you , because there' s certain things i' ve got to prove and i can' t do that not spending money .
we have to go see uncle pete .
so , gordon , where are we on the loan i gave you last ...
spent it .
spent it ?
how much of it ?
all of it .
what about the carney settlement ?
how much of that is ...
spent it .
on ?
woburn .
we spend everything on woburn now .
on woburn .
so what do you think you' re going to need to tide you over here ?
two , three hundred ?
600, 000 .
600, 000 ?
yeah .
pete , when was the last time you lost money betting on me ?
never .
i' m probably the best investment your bank ever made .
how do vampires get around on halloween ?
pass .
blood vessels .
let' s go .
bye , dad .
see you later .
goodbye .
love you .
i thought about coming to see you for a long time .
guess i was afraid to ' cause ...
i didn' t think you' d want to talk to me , ' cause ... where i work and everything .
i' m concerned about what' s been happening around here and ...
i' m angry at the company for the way it' s handling itself .
i' m very sorry about your son .
thank you .
he said he never dumped anything out back , never did anything like that , never saw anybody who did .
tommy barbas didn' t tell you the truth .
neither did paul shalline .
tommy , paul and joey were out back all the time with their buckets and barrels ...
joey who ?
joey miola , plant maintenance .
and the rumor is , there' s 50 more of those barrels buried under this new building here that the city inspectors didn' t find .
50 ?
or more .
here .
ok .
is there anyone else at the plant that might talk to me ?
i don' t think so .
bobby pasqueriella .
bobby ?
he might .
he doesn' t work there any more though .
could you call him ?
yeah , that' s the stuff got dumped .
yeah , all the time .
threw it back there myself all the time .
eddie arsine , he' d say " go and dump that stuff out there in the gully .
out there in the gully there , you know ?
dumped it back there in the gully right there .
washed down the belts and gearboxes with it , and threw it in the gully .
he' d say , dump it out in the gully , like joey .
how about tom barbas , did he ?
tommy ?
no , not tommy , no .
never did anything like that ?
no , no .
he dumped his in a ditch .
ok
good morning mr barbas .
nice to see you again .
i understand you' ve had a chance to think about things since your first deposition .
he says that you said he should just pour it into the pit .
is that how you remember it now that your memory' s been refreshed ?
then he said , go out there and dig a trench ... 20 , 30 feet long . ... and load the barrels onto the truck , drive out there ... dump it into the swimming pool .
that' s what we called it ... the swimming pool .
right .
mr cheeseman , well done .
the odds of a plaintiff' s lawyer winning in civil court are 2 to 1 against .
think about that for a second .
your odds of surviving a game of russian roulette are better than winning a case at trial .
12 times better .
so why does anyone do it ?
they don' t .
they settle .
out of the 780, 000 cases filed each year , only 12, 000 , or one and a half percent , ever reach a verdict .
the whole idea of lawsuits is to settle , to compel the other side to settle .
and you do that by spending more money than you should , which forces them to spend more money than they should .
and whoever comes to their senses first ...
loses .
trials are a corruption of the entire process .
and only fools with something to prove end up ensnared in them .
now when i say prove , i don' t mean about the case .
i mean about themselves .
hey , old man , out of the way !
how' s business , by the way ?
business is good .
is it ?
that' s good .
i was afraid that , with all these scientists and doctors and whatnot , a small boutique firm like yours might be in financial trouble .
i appreciate your concern , jerry .
we' ve got more than enough to go the distance .
are you sure ?
i mean i' d hate it if one day you realized you miscalculated the arithmetic , and there you were , digging quarters out the seats of your shiny black sports car .
you don' t have to worry , jerry .
that' s a relief .
you know what ?
you don' t want me in this case .
you' ve got grace and one deep pocket is enough .
i' m only gonna hurt you .
so get rid of me .
tell me what you' ve got here so far , i have a cheque cut , we get on with our lives .
what do you say ?
my expenses ?
you' re offering to cover my expenses ?
your expenses and your pride .
you think you' re gonna put those families on the stand .
your mothers and your fathers are going to tell their stories and jury' s going to pull out their handkerchiefs and dab their eyes ?
do you really think i' d let that happen ?
i don' t see how you can prevent it .
of course you don' t .
yeah ?
jan , guess what ?
cheeseman called .
he wants to talk .
he wants a number .
he wants out .
i' il get everything together .
i' il meet you back here at the office .
jan , this is it .
we' ve got them .
that' s great .
oh , baby .
god , no !
he said he' d be here .
are the red sox in town ?
sorry i' m late .
i got tied up .
yeah .
well , i was just given a chair at harvard , of all things .
you' re kidding .
which chair ?
it' s black with arms , with my name on a brass plate on the back .
from my students .
jerry , ever thought about getting yourself a new briefcase ?
no , no .
you don' t change your socks in the middle of the world series , jan .
am i sitting in the right place ?
well , actually , we have a seat for you here , but that' s fine .
this' s a nice pen .
they' re courtesy of the hotel .
really ?
this is a good quality pen .
yeah .
so .
so , bill ... ?
how much did grace make last year ?
i have no idea .
but i have a feeling that you do .
198 million dollars .
and beatrice , jerry ?
what ?
436 million dollars .
together , that' s 634 million dollars .
that' s one year .
that' s net .
so , that' s what they made .
now , what should they be made to pay ?
to compensate the families , to provide for their economic security in the future ?
don' t forget to mention you compensating you .
and to make sure that this kind of thing doesn' t happen again .
25 million dollars cash .
and another 25 million dollars to establish a research foundation to study the links between hazardous waste and illness .
and 1 . 5 million dollars per family annually for 30 years .
320 million dollars .
can i ask a question ?
i' m sure everyone has questions .
what' s yours , jerry ?
can i have this ?
thank you .
excuse me .
jan ?
yes , gordon ?
what' s the story ?
well i guess they just don' t want to end this thing .
they don' t want ...
you said this would never go to trial .
you just made certain that it will .
without consulting us , i might add .
they patronize us .
they think we' re blackmailers .
they think they can buy us .
yeah ?
we can' t afford a long drawn out trial .
well you' re going to have to find a way of getting some money , then .
what do you suggest ?
am i the financial advisor around here ?
no , you' re not .
this is the plan .
we start with scientific evidence .
and then the medical experts and their evidence .
then the parents , and then your testimony .
your presence is very important in the courtroom .
this is where the jury gets to know you .
if you' re there some days and not other days , they say " why wasn' t she there ? " and " does she really care ? " and this kind of thing .
i' il be there every day , in the back left hand corner .
well wherever you' re most comfortable .
that was our plan .
if we got separated in the grocery store or the department store that' s where we' d meet .
oh , i see , i see .
in the end , when he was dying , he said , i' il meet you in the back left hand corner of heaven .
all rise .
this court is now in session .
the honorable walter j skinner presiding .
civil action 841672 .
anderson and all versus w. r. grace and beatrice foods .
ladies and gentlemen ... there' s a small town north of boston called woburn .
now woburn is like many small towns .
it has homes , it has churches , it has schools , it has industry .
but woburn has something else .
it has more than its share of sickness and death .
it' s true , small amounts of solvents were left on the ground .
why ?
to evaporate .
did they ?
yes .
these chemicals never reached wells g and h almost half a mile away ... and we will show that .
and they never made anyone sick , and we will show that , too .
the idea of criminal court is crime and punishment .
the idea of civil court and personal injury law by nature though no one likes to say it out loud ,
least of all the personal injury lawyer himself is money .
money for suffering .
money for death .
as if that could somehow relieve suffering .
as if that could somehow bring dead children back to life .
every credit card application we send in , we get two more in the mail .
here' s one from some bank i never heard of in north dakota .
fill it out .
fill them all out .
it' s the last great pyramid scheme in america .
the terrain of east woburn was actually shaped 12, 000 years ago , during the end of the last ice age .
now , at this time , an immense glacier , over a mile thick , covered the face of what we would now call new england .
cancel the american lawyer .
cancel all the legal journals .
who needs them ?
and call the janitorial people , tell them their services are no longer required .
we can empty our own fuckin ' ashtrays .
to understand what' s going on in the ground water system , the place we have to start is the soil itself .
now these are actual soil samples ... ... so the sample c , the aberjona river valley ...
i ...
i can' t send you the entire balance right now .
but perhaps we could work out some sort of a deal .
how much can i send you right now ?
nothing .
a plaintiff' s case depends on momentum .
the fewer objections he gets , the better his case will go .
so whenever you can , you should object .
18 times yesterday , 20 times today .
they' re not even his witnesses , they' re his .
i can' t not object when you phrase questions improperly , not just from a craftsman' s point of view ...
he is deliberately trying to destroy the rhythm of my case .
here we are .
man !
you' ve got to have some good luck on this one .
hold on , hold on , hold on .
17 , 17 , 17 .
you got a winner there ?
no !
shoot .
relevance ... objection .
hearsay ... objection .
best evidence ... objection .
authenticity ...
objection .
if you should fall asleep at the council table , the first thing you say when you wake up should be ...
eh ... ?
objection .
do you swear to tell the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth , so help you god ?
yes .
good morning , mr riley .
would you care for a glass of water ?
no , thank you .
are you sure ?
now the single greatest liability a lawyer can have is pride .
pride ... pride has lost more cases than lousy evidence , idiot witnesses and a hanging judge all put together .
there is absolutely no place in a courtroom for pride .
mr riley , you own the property referred to often in this courtroom as the 15 acres , do you not ?
no , i don' t .
that land is currently owned by a non profit corporation called the wildwood conservancy .
oh , yes , yes .
here it is , the wildwood conservancy .
now what is that ?
some kind of conservation group ?
yes , sir .
i' ve donated the land as a sanctuary for indigent wildlife .
well , you know , i don' t think the indigent wildlife has heard about this , mr riley .
i' ve been out there on several occasions and i have yet to see a single bird or any other living thing .
i get him to say no , no , no .
he says yes once , i' ve got him .
he' s not that stupid .
keep him up there long enough , he' s gonna figure out a way to get you .
i' m not that stupid .
mr riley , experts have testified in this court that your land , your 15 acres , is the most grotesquely polluted land in all of new england .
now you have no idea how it got that way ?
no , sir .
does it upset you to learn this ?
very much so .
really ?
why ?
and one last thing , unless you know exactly what the answer' s going to be , never , ever ask a witness " why " .
never .
my factory is the oldest surviving business in woburn .
when the other tanners moved out , i stayed , even though for me that was a very big financial burden .
this is not the question ...
i stayed because woburn is my home ...
mr riley ...
your honor ...
this is not the question .
he' s trying to answer it , mr schlichtmann .
let him .
that land has been in my family for three generations .
that land to me is hallowed ground .
so when you ask me would i be upset if someone came onto that land and desecrated it
land that' s part of the town that i love my answer to your question , mr schlichtmann ...
is yes .
i have no further questions , your honor .
... and the sad part of it is , they' re robbing themselves of the blessing of giving .
and i know a lot of y' all ain' t gonna believe this but if somebody wrote a cheque tomorrow for the total budget of my church , it wouldn' t affect my giving one bit .
ain' t nobody gonna rob me of the blessing i get from giving !
and you know why a lot of folks ain' t getting ?
' cause they ain' t giving !
do not rob yourself of the blessing of giving .
you' il never guess what i did last night .
you' il like this .
i pledged 200 dollars to a televangelist .
i' m not kidding .
he said , " give and ye shall receive .
i told him right out ...
i know .
i know what you' re thinking .
you' re thinking , gordon' s losing it .
he' s falling apart .
he' s probably buying lottery tickets .
i bought a few .
i' il admit it .
i know , but seriously , the jackpot' s 45 million dollars .
that' s just this week !
you should see the lines out there .
is that a gun ?
what ?
this ?
no .
no , this is for you .
my krugerrands .
i' ve had them forever .
i want you to have them .
and this is the deed to my house .
here is conway' s and crowley' s and jan' s .
see , i come bearing gifts .
we really need the money .
you can tell when your child isn' t feeling well .
has he got a temperature ? " you say " no . " " he' s all right , then " , they say .
don' t worry .
bring him in to the clinic monday morning . " he died monday morning .
start with jimmy anderson countless trips to hospital , futile chemotherapy treatments . and then the other kids , one by one , ending with jared aufiero , dying on the highway .
could somebody get that ?
where is everybody ?
you' re just noticing now ?
gordon laid everybody off two weeks ago .
gordon , instead of sitting there reading a magazine , why don' t you go to uncle pete and get me a staff ?
that' s a good idea .
why didn' t i think of that ?
hello ?
yes , i was told there was a cheeseman on the mayflower .
this way , sir .
thank you .
ah , jan , have a seat .
you want something to drink ?
some coffee ?
soda ?
you' ve been talking without my being present ?
no , we have been drinking coffee without your being present .
don' t be so paranoid .
they were early .
all right .
what' s up ?
jerry ?
last night , i was at a ball game .
it was the seventh innings stretch and i was standing there , and i don' t know why but it occurred to me at that moment , unless you' ve proven that any ...
what word should we use ?
chemicals ?
poisons .
alright , if you like that word , i' il use it .
unless you' ve proven that any poisons actually reached the wells , there' s no case .
and therefore , no need to make these families , who' ve already suffered so much , relive their suffering all over again by putting them on the stand .
your honor , you' ve got ...
that' s interesting .
what ?
i think i' d have to agree with that .
your honor , the ...
if the jury decides favorably on the geological evidence , yes , then you could bring your families in .
your honor , the jury came into this courtroom expecting a human drama .
and instead , for three months , we' ve been giving them lessons in geology .
now we had to do that but now it' s over ... finally .
now it' s time ...
now we have to see where we are before we move on , and before we subject these families to more trauma than necessary , because that would just be cruel .
they want to testify ... they need to testify the decision has been made .
but this is the defendant' s plan , this ...
it' s my plan .
but this is facher' s plan .
right from the beginning , he told me ... he threatened ...
it' s my plan !
now ... my plan is to present the jury with some simple questions . ... indeed how you answer these three questions , will determine whether or not this trial continues .
it' s not that i disagree with them it' s that i don' t understand them .
what don' t you understand ?
they' re straightforward questions .
have the plaintiffs established , by preponderance of evidence , that chemicals containing tce were disposed of on the w. r. grace and beatrice owned lands after october 1 , 1964 and august 27 , 1968 , respectively , and did those chemicals contribute to the well water contamination ?
what were these dates , for one thing ?
what are they ?
where do they come from ?
from out of a hat ?
question two .
what , according to a preponderance of the evidence , was the earliest time ... the month and year ... at which these chemicals substantially contributed to the contamination of the wells ?
well how can they determine that ?
science can' t even determine when the chemicals arrived at the wells with the precision that you' re asking of the jurors .
and finally , three .
what , according to a preponderance of the evidence , was the earliest time again , month and year at which substantial contribution referred to in question two was caused , if it was , by the negligent conduct of the defendants ?
but what does that mean ?
it' s like english translated into japanese back into english again .
mr schlichtmann i' ve heard enough .
your honor , no one can answer these questions .
i worked very hard on these questions .
you' re asking for answers that are unknowable .
i said i have heard enough .
you' re asking these people to create a fiction that will stand for the truth , but won' t be the truth .
enough !
once again , i remind you not to discuss your views with any outside party , and excuse you ...
don' t worry about it .
everything' s under control .
and excuse you to your deliberations .
thank you .
i' ve never done this .
in 45 years of practicing law ,
i' ve never waited in a corridor for a jury .
i always do .
i can tell .
you' re good at it .
you seem so at peace doing it .
so what do you think ?
is it good they' re staying out this long or is it bad ?
for who ?
for me , of course .
you can never tell , can you .
it could mean anything .
it could mean jury duty' s more fun than working at the post office .
it' s bad for both of you .
you think ?
well , here' s my take .
guilty .
not guilty .
that' s what they' re going to say . and it' s not going to have anything to do with dates or ground water measurements or any of that crap , which nobody can understand anyway .
it' s going to come down to people , like it always does .
you found someone who saw him dumping stuff .
you didn' t find anyone who saw me .
what' s your take ?
they' il see the truth .
the truth ?
i thought we were talking about a court of law .
come on , you' ve been around long enough to know that a courtroom isn' t a place to look for the truth .
you' re lucky to find anything here that in any way resembles the truth .
you disagree .
well , since when ?
eight kids are dead , jerry .
jan ,
jan , that suit fits you better than the sentimentality .
that' s not how you made all that money all these years , is it ?
you want to know when this case stopped being about dead children ? the minute you filed the complaint .
the minute it entered the justice system .
oh , yes .
i know you like to gamble . you' re like a high stakes gambler , that' s your profession .
why don' t we test your born again faith in the righteousness of our courts with a high stakes gamble ?
if that' s a settlement offer , jerry , it' s not enough .
that' s not what i hear .
who said that ?
the irs , telling us they have a lien on any eventual settlement in order to recover over two and a half million dollars in unpaid taxes .
but , well ...
alright ...
what if i would add six zeros onto that ?
that' s right .
that would be ... what ? ... 20 million dollars .
now , that would put things in perspective for you , wouldn' t it ?
as far as truth and justice and ... and dead children go ?
if you want to talk seriously about a settlement offer ,
let' s get the decision makers together and talk seriously .
the decision makers are here , aren' t they ?
you' re looking at mr beatrice .
i don' t have to call anybody .
do you ?
it' s just you and me .
we' re like kings .
we are kings .
sitting in our castle , deciding important things .
deciding the fates of others .
and counting money .
in our counting room !
tell you what .
i' il leave this here ,
i' il go back down the hall to my throne room and i' il await your decision .
oh , if you' re really looking for the truth , jan ,
look for it where it is at the bottom of a bottomless pit .
mr foreman , members of the jury , have you reached a verdict ?
yes , your honor .
with respect to w. r. grace , the jury has answered ...
yes " to question one regarding trichlorethylene contamination , requiring that we proceed further in the case against grace to a second stage of this trial .
in regard to beatrice , the jury has answered " no " to question one in all its points pertaining to contamination which renders questions two and three inapplicable , ending the case against beatrice .
mr facher , that means you' re excused .
thank you , your honor .
we are going to take a little break now , a breather , until after lunch .
once again , i remind you not to talk to anyone about your deliberations and ... thank you for your service .
disappointed ?
no , no .
we' re not disappointed at all .
this is a victory .
this sends a clear message to these companies that they can no longer get away with this kind of thing .
so what now ?
right now ?
i think we should celebrate , have some champagne .
what do you think ?
yes ?
so you intend to go forward with your claims against grace , no matter how long it takes ?
we have to get out of this case as fast as we can .
that' s the only strategy we have left .
the good news is grace wants to talk .
they want us to come to new york and sit down with , uh , their executive vice president , al eustis .
so before we do that we need to know what our squeal point is .
8 million .
8 million will just about get us out of hock .
bill
whatever gordon says , he knows the numbers .
jan , every dollar we spend is a dollar we don' t have .
we are floating on credit without a net .
well , i don' t need a net .
mortgage my house .
i don' t care .
i have .
and kevin' s and bill' s and mine .
and i' ve cashed in our retirement plan .
and our life insurance policies .
and it' s gone .
let me put it this way , if we can' t make it appear that we have money ... we can go the distance ... ... they not gonna give us 8 million dollars .
they won' t give us eight cents .
you know that .
you all know that .
it' s the nicest suite in the hotel .
it has a living room , dining room , two bedrooms , a den , a lovely view .
it' s 2, 400 dollars a night .
for our inner strength .
on the card .
why not ?
farmers ' bank of iowa .
hey , there !
hi , jan schlichtmann .
al eustis .
how are you ?
sorry i' m late .
i got lost .
you got lost ?
yes .
how did you manage that ?
i' ve never been here before so ...
what ?
never been here before , what kind of harvard man are you ?
the cornell kind .
cornell ?
i thought you went to harvard ?
i' m sure somebody said that you went to harvard !
cornell !
yes .
well , listen , cornell is ... is a damn good school .
damn good .
so what do you want ?
well , i could take you through it step by step or , if you prefer , you could take this with you and study it .
it' s a little complicated but ...
it' s an unspoken rule of the harvard club business is never transacted here .
i meant , what do you want to drink ?
i wanted to reach across and strangle him with his tie .
instead , i sat there for two hours and listened to him talk about selling his yacht at long island sound .
you know , sometimes i actually prefer the little one , the 35 footer .
because i can crew it myself ,
i can be all by myself out there alone .
boy , it' s magnificent .
and there' s no ...
nobody can call you .
nobody can beep you .
nobody can fax you .
there' s no lawsuits .
you know what i' m talking about .
you sail ?
no .
you don' t sail ?
finally , we went to his office .
well , let' s go over here and sit down .
come on .
it' s more comfortable .
have a seat .
he comes around the desk , he sits down .
go ahead , sit down .
he puts his feet up on this spindly , french antique thing and he tells me to put my feet up .
put your feet up .
come on .
i don' t want to .
no , thank you .
no , go ahead .
go ahead .
no , really , i' m fine .
nothing' s going to break .
it' s all right .
come on , put them up .
it was weird ... all this talk about putting my feet on this table .
it' s all right , i mean it .
try it .
come on , put your feet up .
there .
now let' s be honest .
i can afford to pay you almost anything you ask .
it' s not the money .
it' s what a settlement that high says .
it says we' re guilty .
and that says to every two bit personal injury lawyer in boston ,
hey , let' s run up to woburn and sign up every jerk with a head cold .
creates a shark effect , and that i can' t afford .
give me a number .
i' m not going to negotiate with myself , al ,
i' m not going to just throw out numbers so you can say no to them .
you' il have to come up with a number .
8 million .
8 million .
he said 8 million ?
8 million .
i can' t go to the families with that .
wait !
what ?
who ?
what families ?
i can' t go to them empty handed .
what are you talking about ?
since when is 8 million dollars empty handed ?
8 million dollars is a lot of money !
i owe them more than that .
you owe them ?
what do you owe them ?
what do you owe them ?
do you owe them your career ?
you' re talking about our careers here !
you owe them that ?
we' re talking about our families here !
that' s what we' re talking here .
our families , jan ...
don' t do it .
don' t go for broke on this one .
it isn' t worth it , jan .
nobody calls any more ?
not even the creditors .
are the phones still working ?
schlichtmann , conway and crowley .
just a moment , please .
someone named grendan .
creditor .
are you here ?
do i look like i' m here ?
he' s in a meeting at the moment .
do me a favor , gordon , will you ?
shut up .
what ?
i' m so tired of hearing you moan about money all the time .
this isn' t about money any more .
no ?
what' s it about ?
what' s it about , jan ?
look , let' s just all try to ...
no , i want to know .
i want to know what i gave up my house for ... my credit , my life !
would you take 10 million dollars , right now ?
yes .
but you won' t take eight ?
no .
so 10 million is some mythic struggle , but eight is just another lawsuit !
if they' re willing to pay eight , gordon , then it' s not enough , is it ? .
that makes sense !
it makes perfect sense .
so the only thing you' il accept is what they' re not willing to give us ?
listen to yourself !
i for one am sick of listening to you .
i' ve lost enough because of you .
you wouldn' t have anything to lose if it wasn' t for me .
everything you have , i got for you !
i don' t have anything , jan !
what do i have ?
i got a couple of bucks and some bus transfers .
i' ve got a savings account from when i was 12 years old .
here ... there' s 37 dollars in here .
with interest after 25 years , it' s probably 47 dollars !
take it !
add it to the war chest .
use it to fight injustice !
stand up for principles with the ... go down in flames with it for all i care .
only next time ...
next time ... that' s a laugh !
ask us if we want to go down with you !
i' d like to leave a message for al eustis , please .
i' ve been informed that a settlement agreement has been reached .
as a condition of this agreement , the exact terms shall remain private among the parties involved .
i want to thank you for your service ...
our contingency fee , as you know , as you agreed to ... as is customary is forty percent , but jan suggested , and we all agreed to reduce that to twenty eight percent or 2 . 2 million dollars .
our expenses ... what we actually paid out trying this case comes to 3 . 5 million dollars .
now , subtracting that , and the 28 % in fees , from the 8 million we got from grace and dividing it equally among you , comes out to 375, 000 dollars per family .
and they' re gonna clean the place up ?
no .
when you first came out here , mr schlichtmann , when we first spoke , i told you i wasn' t interested in money .
here it comes .
what i wanted was an apology from someone for what they did to my son .
and you said , money is the apology .
that' s how they apologize with their chequebooks .
would you call this an apology ?
no .
the only meaningful apology you' re going to get is from me .
i' m sorry .
i' m afraid that isn' t meaningful .
mrs anderson , you' re looking at four guys who are broke .
we lost everything trying this case .
how can you even begin to compare what you' ve lost to what we' ve lost ?
listen , the minute you put money on the table , things turn ugly .
it happens every time .
forget about it .
but she' s right .
she' s not right .
it' s cold , wet .
we' re standing in a swamp .
i want to go home .
somewhere out here somebody had to have seen what happened .
you can' t do what riley did without somebody seeing it .
you' re talking about the case .
the case is over .
yeah , i know .
they' ve had it , they want out , right ?
it' s time they went their separate way .
you know what i think of that ?
fine .
let ' em .
i can imagine worse things .
like what ?
so what if we have to start over ?
we did it once .
we can do it again , the two of us .
oh , i see .
when you say it' s over , you mean it' s over .
it' s time for me to go my separate way .
you always went your separate way , jan .
thank you .
this is how silicone is put on leather to waterproof it .
it' s poured on
like you poured water on my table .
yeah .
so then some of it must spill off the leather ,
like the water spilling off my table .
that' s the part i' m interested in .
the spilled silicone and trichlorethylene , sir how you disposed of that .
we' re just here to look at your records .
i didn' t call him , he just came .
and what did you do ?
you let him in the door .
of course i let him in .
do you know how sometimes you get so close to something that you lose sight of it ?
i kept looking for someone who saw riley dumping barrels of poison , when i ... what i should' ve been looking for was someone who helped him clean it up .
was there a personal reason why you rented two dump trucks and a front loader back in october of ' 81 ?
or is this just part of your job at the tannery ?
mr granger ?
i don' t have to talk to you .
i can tell you to get off my property and i' d be within my rights .
yes , you would .
in the fall of 1981 , mr riley instructed me to rent a michigan loader and two 10 wheel dump trucks .
did he tell you why ?
yes , he did .
all of it goes .
everything .
i don' t want to see anything but topsoil .
all of it .
did you think it was strange that after rotting out there for 20 or 30 years he had to get rid of it now ? ... anywhere .
i don' t even want to know where you take it .
just take it .
no , he told me why .
the city inspectors were coming in a couple of days .
he didn' t want them to see it .
this went on for several nights .
fill the trucks , trucks drive off , trucks come back empty , fill them up again .
on the last night ...
on the last night , what ?
are you sure you didn' t see some kids out there on that last night ?
lighting fire crackers , drinking beers ?
i' ve nothing to say to you .
it' d be hard to forget .
you know , it' s a ...
apparently , it was quite a sight .
go , go , go .
watch out !
hey , you' re on private property !
you little punks !
he' s talking about you !
hey , you know what , mister , i' m sorry .
look i got a little something to make up for it .
there you go !
there ... fry !
i' il have you arrested !
it' s like that now !
you want some of that ?
eat it !
let' s go !
let' s go !
get the fuck out !
come on .
did riley threaten you in any way , with what might happen to you if you ever came forward ?
no , sir .
he didn' t say anything at all to you in this regard ?
he gave me a couple of celtics tickets .
told me to keep my mouth shut .
the appeals process is even more byzantine than the trial it' s appealing .
it takes longer , it costs more , its outcome is even less promising .
only five cases in 50 will win in appeals court .
the odds are as easy to calculate as they are discouraging .
they' re 10 to 1 against .
just about any bet at any table in any casino anywhere in the world ... is better than that .
i have the evidence but no longer the resources or the gambling spirit to appeal the decision in the beatrice case .
i have no money , no partners , and , as far as i can tell , no clients any more .
the woburn case has become what it was when it first came to me an orphan .
i' m forwarding it on to you , in all it' s unwieldiness even as i know you may not care to adopt it any more than i did at first .
if you do decide to take it on ,
i hope you' il be able to succeed where i' ve failed .
if you calculate success and failure as i always have , in dollars and cents divided neatly into human suffering , the arithmetic says ...
i failed completely .
what it doesn' t say is if i could somehow go back , knowing what i know now , knowing where i' d end up if i got involved with these people , knowing all the numbers , all the odds , all the angles ...
i' d do it again .
mr facher ?
sorry .
jesus !
mr schlichtmann .
mr schlichtmann ?
i' m sorry .
yes ?
the purpose of these questions is not to embarrass or humiliate you , but rather to verify the information you' ve declared as your assets .
i understand .
because what you' re asking your creditors to believe with this petition is ...
well , it' s hard to believe .
i know .
that after 17 years of practicing law , all you have to show for it is ... 14 dollars in a chequing account and a portable radio ?
that' s correct .
where did it all go ?
the money ?
the money , the property , the personal belongings .
the things one acquires in one' s life , mr schlichtmann .
the things by which one measures one' s life .
what happened ?
