23 . 976
several million years ago
present day
dr. weir
peter .
you see ?
nothing .
carson , get back here .
i could sit in that chair all bloody day long and nothing il happen .
it s a waste of time .
excuse me , dr. weir .
he s not even trying .
he s the one who discovered the gene this technology responds to .
yeah , well , he said he wish he never had it .
really ?
i know , can you believe that ?
we could always test you a third time , rodney .
that s very funny .
we have only found a handful of people who are genetically compatible with the ancient technology , and despite your heroic effortsto interface ours with theirs ... we need every one of them to sit in this chair including dr. beckett .
what am i supposed to do ?
he s afraid of the thing .
this chair controls the most powerful weapons known to humankind ,
i m afraid of the thing
but every time someone sits in it we learn something new about the ancients who built this outpost .
dr. beckett should be proud he s genetically advanced
not more advanced .
it is a random characteristic .
this really bothers you , this whole gene thing .
oh , clearly i am overcome with envy .
ah , just the people i need to see .
come with me .
we ve gotten closer , and closer , to finding the location of the lost city but it turns out we ve been looking in the wrong place all along .
now , we thought we had a stargate address .
six symbols representing coordinates in space that determine the location of the planet the ancients went to after they left antarctica .
now , recently , we determined a seventh symbol .
the point of origin , earth .
that s not it .
then your address must be incorrect .
not incorrect , incomplete .
what are you saying , dr. jackson ?
it s an 8 symbol address .
what we re looking for may be further away than we ever imagined , but its not out of reach .
atlantis .
atlantis .
i think we can go there .
episode 1 & 2 rising by team24 & sg 66 forom . com & seriestele . net
apache , black hawk , cobra , osprey .
that s a lot of training for the antarctic .
it was the one continent i never set foot on .
it s one of my least favorite continents .
i kinda like it here .
you like it here ?
yes sir .
be there in about 10 minutes sir .
look , we ve been through this .
i m not your man .
keep moving .
i m a doctor .
a medical doctor .
there s nothing to be afraid of
you don t understand , i break things like this
this device has survived for millions of years intact it will survive you
now sit down , close your eyes and concentrate .
again , nothing .
this time just try to imagine an image of where we are in the solar system .
i think i feel something .
it could be lunch related .
shut up , and concentrate
what did i do ? !
get us back down there !
all inbound aircraft , we have a rouge drone that can seek a target on it s own .
land immediately and shut down your engines , this is not a drill !
i repeat
it s too late .
hang on .
break right .
i said right .
i m getting to that , sir .
i told you i was the wrong person
it doesn t matter now , just do something .
like what ?
carson , concentrate on shutting that weapon down before it hurts someone .
i can t see it .
pull up , pull up !
what about now ?
now s good .
shut it down .
sir , what the hell was that ?
wait for it
get out !
i think i did it .
that was different .
for me , not so much .
major sheppard is reporting the drone appears to have been incapacitated .
general o neill s helicopter is unharmed and on it s way again
seven minutes out .
thank god .
holy crap .
jack !
daniel
warm welcome .
wasn t me .
how d you manage to , uh ?
keep my ass from getting blown out of the sky ?
the exceptional flying of major john sheppard .
he likes it here .
exceptional you like it here ?
what say we cut to the part where you start talking real fast ?
ah , weir s in here .
hey !
don t touch anything .
yes sir .
i figure the ancients packed up their entire city and left somewhere between five and ten million years ago .
in their flying city ?
yes .
what ?
flying city ?
well , uh , keep in mind this is the race that built the stargates they did everything big .
so , why d they leave ?
why d they leave ?
um who knows ?
we know the ancients on earth were suffering from a plague .
maybe some of them were trying to start over seeding life in a new galaxy .
maybe that s what ancients do the point is we know where they went .
pegasus .
yes , it s the name of a dwarf galaxy in a local group .
after all the time is there any hope of actually meeting them ?
who knows ?
but isn t that reason enough to go ?
well i ve been choosing members for this expedition for months , dr.
i m not the one who needs convincing .
oh i m convinced .
have fun .
uh , it s a little more complicated than that .
we need the zed p m to power the gate .
what ?
the z. p. m. he s , uh , he s canadian .
i m sorry .
oh , the zero point module , general .
the ancien power source you recovered from praclarush taonas , and that s now powering the outposts defenses .
i have since determined that it generates it s enormous power from vacuum energy derived from a self contained region of subspace time .
that was a waste of a perfectly good explanation .
the answer s no .
... they re lucky , i don t know where it came from .
i just had to concentrate and the drone shut itself down .
so you were the one .
me ?
you re the one who fired that thing at me .
look , we re doing research , working with technology that s light years beyond us , and we make mistakes .
i m incredibly , incredibly sorry .
well next time just be a little more careful , okay ?
that s what i said
what the hell was that thing anyway ?
you mean the drone ?
the weapon the ancients built to defend this outpost .
the who ?
you do have security clearance to be here ?
yeah , yeah , general o neill just gave it to me .
then you don t even know about the stargate .
the what ?
jack , you know that gating to another galaxy requires an enormous amount of power .
yes , i do .
find another way .
there s no other way .
you think there are more of these zed things in atlantis ?
yes , and who knows what else we could find .
this isn t just some other civilization we re talking about , these are the gate builders .
the potential wealth of knowledge and technology , it outweighs anything we ve come across since we stepped through the stargate .
well , with the amount of power you il need to make this trek , odds are it il be one way .
yes we know
but the benefit to humanity is far greater than the risk , general .
and it is a risk that every one of my expedition members is willing to take .
they think the gene was used as a sort of genetic key if you will , so that only their kind could operate certain dangerous or powerful technologies .
so some people have the same genes as these ancients .
the specific gene is very rare , but on the whole they look very much like we do .
in fact , they were first .
we re the second evolution of this form .
the ancients having explored this galaxy for millions of years before
major , please don t
come on , what are the odds of me having the same gene as these guys ?
quite slim , actually .
dr. weir !
don t move !
who is this ?
i said don t touch anything .
i just sat down .
major , think about where we are in the solar system .
did i do that ?
we could be on our way to discovering an entirely new ancient civilization .
best case scenario , we meet actual ancients who are willing to help us .
but if we don t , general we need him .
sorry , doc .
i need daniel here .
i m talking about major sheppard .
oh , don t you have a dozen or so people already who can use the ancient technology ?
yeah , with concentration and training they can make it work .
but john sheppard , he does it naturally .
you know , i ve checked into his record
i know about the whole supposed black mark in afghanistan , he was trying to save the lives of three servicemen .
disobeying a direct order in the process .
i have read your own file , general .
please .
right .
okay , it s your expedition .
you want him , you ask him .
that s the thing , i have .
really ?
this isn t a long trip so i il be as succinct as possible .
well , that s pretty succinct .
thank you .
i told dr. weir , you know , that i d think about it .
and ?
so ?
well ?
what ?
with all due respect , sir , we were just attacked by an alien missile .
then i found out i have some mutant gene .
then there s this stargate thing and these expeditions to other galaxies .
you know , this isn t about you sheppard .
it s a lot bigger than that .
right now , at this very second , whether i decide to go on this mission or not seems to be about me
let me ask you something .
why d you become a pilot ?
i think people that don t wanna fly are crazy .
and i think people who don t wanna go thru the stargate are equally as whacked .
now if you can t give me a yes by the time we reach mcmurdoch , i don t even want you .
simon , if you re watching this , it means that the president has been kind enough to grant you security clearance .
i m not going on a diplomatic mission to another country .
i m going to another planet , in another galaxy , by means of a device called a stargate .
millions of years ago there was a race of beings we call the ancients ... they created a network of these stargate throughout our galaxy , in order to travel freely among their worlds  we don t know why , but the left for another galaxy somewhere between 5 and 10 million years ago  taking their entire city along with them .
that city was called atlantis .
i have been assembling an expedition team  in order to try to find atlantis , and hopefully the ancients that left earth all those years ago
i wanna do this , simon , with all my heart .
you know me well enough to know i could never turn down an opportunity like this , but i wanted the chance to tell you
the cell of the customer you' re trying to reach is curently outside the covered area
ok .
i mean i narrowed it down to about 3 things , but after a week , i ...
i don' t under ...
does anyone else here speak the language these guy' s are speaking ?
i just need a couple of minutes to finish my work , and you' re not helping by standing there .
you ve got 5 minutes to get it going or i m leaving it .
everything in here has been double checked and triple checked and cleared for takeoff , leave it alone .
look , colonel , i don t answer to you .
he said the same to me , sir .
that s what your sidearm is for .
you see , each chevron address is what tells our gate to look for a point in space outside our galaxy , so we won t know until it locks .
we there yet ?
we re just waiting on dr. mckay .
it should work now .
okay sgt. , give it a try .
the zed p m should light up when it senses a conductive connection to the gate .
can i have everyone s attention please ?
all right , here we go .
we are about to try to make a connection .
we have been unable to predict exactly how much power this is going to take and we may only get the one chance at this .
so if we are able to achieve a stable wormhole , we re not gonna risk shutting the gate down .
we il send in the malp robot probe , check for viability , and go
everything in one shot .
now every one of you volunteered for this mission , and you represent over a dozen countries .
you are the world s best and brightest , and in light of the adventure we are about to embark on ,
you are also the bravest .
i hope we all return one day having discovered a whole new realm for humanity to explore , but as all of know , we may never be able to return home .
i d like to offer you all one last chance to withdrawal your participation .
begin the dialing sequence .
let me make myself clear , major .
you are not here by my choice .
i m sure you il warm up to me once you get to know me , sir .
as long as you remember who s giving the orders .
that would be dr. weir , right ?
chevron three encoded .
chevron four encoded .
nice .
thank you .
chevron five encoded .
chevron six encoded .
this is it .
seriously , dr. , calm down .
you re embarrassing me .
i ve never been so excited in my entire life .
chevron eight is locked .
send the malp .
we have malp telemetry .
what is it we re looking at ?
switching to zero locks .
the radar indicates a large room ?
it s structurally in tact ?
the climactic sensors say there s oxygen , no measurable toxins ; we have viable life support .
looks like we re not getting out of this .
dr. weir , you have a go .
thank you , sir .
let s go people , we don t know how much power we ve got .
security teams 1 and 2 , you re up first .
all other personnel will follow on our signal .
once on the other side , keep moving , clear the debarkation area .
on my lead
hold on , colonel .
we go through together .
fair enough .
jack , it s not too late for me to  no .
i could just grab my  no .
all clear , it looks good .
expedition team , move out .
what does it feel like ?
hurts like hell , sir .
teams one and two secure the immediate area .
everyone else find an open space and park it until instructed otherwise .
who s doing that ?
security teams , any alien contact ?
negative , sir .
team four negative , colonel
the lights are coming on by themselves .
that s everyone .
general o neill ,
atlantis base offers greetings from the pegasus galaxy .
you may cut power to the gate .
they look like ships .
spaceships !
i love it .
dr. weir , you have to see this .
i have a lot of things to see .
just be careful .
i didn t touch anything .
relax , major .
it s like the entire complex is sensing our presence and coming to life .
this has got to be the control room .
this is obviously their version of a dhd
oh , obviously .
this area could be power control systems , possibly a computer interface .
hey , hey .
why don t you find out .
right .
dr. weir , colonel sumner .
can you come down and meet me please ?
we re three levels down , come in .
right away .
we ve only been able to secure a fraction of the place , it s huge .
so it might really be the lost city of atlantis ?
i d say that s a good bet .
oh my god .
we re underwater .
i d say we re under several hundred feet of ocean .
if we can t dial out , this could be a problem .
colonel , dr. weir .
we re underwater .
yes , i was just , uh , coming to tell you .
fortunately there s some sort of force shield holding back the water
oh that is impressive , isn t it ?
uh dr. beckett has found something you should , uh , see .
... in the hope of spreading new life in a galaxy where there appeared to be none .
soon , the new life grew and prospered , here
it s a hologram , the recording loops ; here , as before , we built a system of stargates ,
this is my second time through . so that fledgling civilizations
what have we missed ?
not much . could travel between the stars , exchanging knowledge and friendship .
in time , a thousand worlds bore the fruit of life in this form .
then one day our people step foot on a dark world where a terrible enemy slept .
never before had we encountered beings with powers that rivaled our own .
in our overconfidence we weren t prepared , and outnumbered .
the enemy fed upon the defenseless human worlds like a great scourge , until finally only atlantis remained .
this city s great shield was powerful enough to withstand their terrible weapons , but here we were besieged for many years .
in an effort to save the last of our kind we submerged our great city into the ocean .
the atlantis stargate was the one and only link back to earth from this galaxy , and those who remained used it to return to that world that was once home .
there , the last survivors of atlantis lived out the remainder of their lives .
this city was left to slumber in the hope that our kind would one day return .
huh .
so the story of atlantis is true .
a great city that sank in the ocean .
it just didn t happen on earth .
well the ancient greeks must have heard it from one of the surviving ancients .
i don t like the fact that they got their asses kicked .
let s see it again from the beginning .
stop !
turn it off .
power levels throughout the city are dropping like a stone .
what does that mean ?
that if we don t stop everything we re doing right now , we are dead .
please tell me this is not my fault .
no .
thank you .
from what we ve been able to ascertain the city is powered by three zero point modules .
two are entirely depleted and the third is reaching maximum entropy .
when it does , it il die too and nothing can reverse that .
just tell me the bottom line .
the force field holding back the ocean has collapsed to its minimum sustainable levels .
see here , and here , where the shield has already failed and the city is flooded .
it could have happened years ago , this section is probably more protected because of the stargate .
what if it fails completely ?
it s a matter of when , not if .
colonel sumner , you need to order your security team to stop searching the city immediately .
all security teams fall back to the gate room .
it s not gonna be good enough .
all right , well how much time do we have ?
it s hard to say .
hours , maybe days if we minimize power expenditure .
what about our own power generators ?
we re working on that , but with our most advanced naquada power generators , the equations are coming up far short .
so we need to find more zpms .
well how do we do that if we can t search the city ?
if there were more here , we d be able to detect them .
can we use the stargate ?
there s nowhere near enough power to open a wormhole back to earth .
maybe somewhere in this galaxy .
that s relatively easy .
fortunately , some ancient technology still uses good ole fashion push buttons , so we ve been able to access the stargate control system and a library of known gate addresses in the database .
that s not all , look at this .
just like the iris on the earth gate .
using power , using power , using power .
at least we don t have to deal with any uninvited guests .
colonel , assemble a team .
we need safe harbor , or better still , another power source .
lt. ford , gather security teams one and two ; everyone gear up .
major , i d like you to go along .
yes ma am .
all right , pick an address ; start dialing .
chevron one encoded .
rodney .
fine
ready malp 4 for off world recon .
the malp reads full viability and no immediate signs of activity around the stargate , but its pitch black .
for now , we re going to use the tried and true system of identification for inbound gate travelers .
let s move out .
please , don' t hurt us !
please , they re just playing .
everything okay here , sheppard ?
yes , sir , just a couple of kids .
halling .
i don t know what that means .
it s his name .
oh , halling .
it s nice to meet you .
are you here to trade ?
trade , yes .
we re traders .
now how many times have i told you not to play in the forest after dark ?
i m just glad you re safe .
teyla will wish to meet with you .
come .
parker , smitty , you re on gate duty .
dial atlantis base and let the good doctor know we ve made contact with the indigenous people .
sir , if you don t mind my asking ,
i ve noticed you ve got a problem with major sheppard .
my problem , lieutenant , is with his record .
i don t like anybody who doesn t follow the proper chain of command .
yes , sir .
what was that mask you had on ?
helps you see in the dark , check it out .
whoa .
let me see .
whoa .
can i have it .
no .
what s the mask you got on ?
this ?
the wraith .
the wraith .
what s that ?
you don t know ?
what world do you come from ?
can we go there ?
afraid not , i come from a galaxy far , far away .
it s halling , i bring men from away .
enter .
these men wish to trade .
it s , uh , nice to meet you .
i am teyla emmagan , daughter of tegan .
colonel marshall sumner ,
major sheppard ,
lieutenant ford .
we have very few specific needs .
we do not trade with strangers .
is that a fact ?
well then , we il just uh , we il have to get to know each other .
me , um , i like , uh , farris wheels , college football , anything that goes more than 200 miles per hour .
sir , that s not gonna mean anything to them .
feel free to speak up , i m just trying to break the ice .
these people can t help us , i d rather not waste the time .
each morning , before dawn , our people drink a stout tea to brace us for the coming day .
will you join us ?
i love a good cup of tea .
now there s another thing you know about me .
we re practically friends already .
we didn t even know it was there until the sun came up .
looks more promising than anything else these folks have to offer .
plenty of shelter , nice little valley location , location , location .
the city of the ancestors is not safe .
we can handle ourselves .
the wraith will come .
who are these wraith ?
we have never met anyone who did not know .
well you have now .
if the wraith have never touched your world you should go back there .
oh we d like to , but we can t .
see , here s the thing , ma am , we ve got ourselves into a bit of a bind .
we may need a safe place to stay for a while .
our people have long believed that the wraith will come if we venture into the old city .
but , it is a belief we have not tested in some time .
gentlemen .
look , i don t care what they say , that city s worth a look .
not to mention the possibility there could be zpms there that they don t know or care about .
what if the wraith are the enemy the ancient hologram lady is talking about ?
all the more reason for us to have a defensible position should we need to abandon atlantis .
stay here and find out what you can .
ford , you head back to the gate and report in to weir .
tell her we il have answers for her in a few hours .
yes , sir .
well , guess it s just you and me and him .
your leader looks through me as if i were not there .
do i ?
no .
you truly cannot return to your world ?
no
then there is something you should see .
how much further is this place ?
not far .
tell me some good news , rodney .
i can t do that .
the shield has held back the ocean for centuries .
and probably would have kept going for years more , but our arrival changed that .
now it s nothing more but a thin shell between the buildings and the water .
we stopped exploring  the damage is already done .
another section of the city on the far side was flooded an hour or so ago .
even occupying this room is draining power .
we need to evacuate the moment colonel sumner reports back it s safe .
you re saying we have to abandon the city .
the sooner we leave , the longer that shield holds .
i used to play here as a child .
i believe this is where the survivors hid from the wraith during the last great attack .
let me get it .
we mastered fire long ago .
guess so .
what s this ?
i lost this years ago .
how did you
it was just lying right over there .
it was reflecting off the light .
someone s been busy , huh ?
the drawings in the caves are extensive .
many must date back thousands of years , or more .
does this represent the destruction of your city ?
this drawing far predates that .
so , what ?
someone knew it was gonna happen ?
i believe it happens again , and again .
the wraith allow our kind to grow in numbers .
and when that number reaches a certain point they return to cull their human herd .
sometimes a few hundred years will pass before they awaken again .
we ve visited many , many worlds .
i know of none untouched by the wraith .
the last great holocaust was five generations ago .
still they return , in smaller numbers , to remind us of their power .
that s a hell of a way to live .
we move our hunting camps around .
we try to teach our children not to live in fear , but it is hard .
some of us can sense the wraith coming .
that gives us warning .
we should go , it will be dark soon .
man , days are short here .
major sheppard , this is colonel sumner .
come in .
colonel sheppard , this is lt. ford .
major sheppard s out of radio range at the moment .
where the hell is he ?
i think teyla wanted him to see something .
defensive positions !
colonel , we have gate activity here .
colonel , three bandits headed your way .
take cover !
what is it ?
the wraith .
just live it !
jinto !
fire at that target !
teyla !
colonel they re on the ground , they re all around us !
teyla ?
they are not really there .
do not trust your eyes .
the wraith can make you see things that are not there .
we must hurry .
colonel , this is sheppard .
what you see on the ground is just an illusion .
concentrate and fire on the ships .
fire at the ships !
fire at the ships !
bates , snap out of it .
they re everywhere , sir .
take that thing down .
teyla .
teyla !
sir , the colonel .
they ve taken him .
the gate s coming on again .
two enemy ships approaching .
let em go , there are friendlies on board .
look at the dialing device ; burn those symbols into your mind .
son of a
help !
help me !
i can t find my father .
here it comes .
what am i looking for ?
there another part of the force field just failed .
i don t think we have much time .
how are we doing ?
look , if we can just buy ourselves another day , maybe we can
the city is sacrificing parts of itself in order to maintain these main areas , but catastrophic failure is inevitable .
not in my wildest dreams did i hope to find the lost city of the ancients so completely untouched , so pristine and we have no choice but to walk away from this ?
in order to save it .
to save it for whom ?
we don t have enough power to send a message .
as far as earth is concerned , we re just going to be missing ; presumed lost .
we il be back .
we il find a power source somewhere in pegasus .
we have yet to hear from colonel sumner , we have no idea what s out there .
we can t wait .
it is time to go , now .
attention all personnel , this is weir .
stand by for immediate evacuation .
dial the gate .
we ve got an incoming wormhole .
i m reading lt. ford s identification code .
let him in .
step in folks , move away from the puddle .
major sheppard !
major sheppard , who are all these people ?
survivors from the settlement ; we were attacked .
sumner and some of our men were taken .
what s going on ?
we are in no position to help anyone right now .
what the hell s going on here ?
we were about to abandon the city .
call back there is a really bad idea
major sheppard the shield is about to fail and the ocean is about to come crashing in on us .
do you have a better place for us to go ?
jinto , you have any other address where we can gate to ?
yes , many .
he s just a boy .
i am jinto .
she s pleased to meet you .
the shield is collapsing !
i m dialing an address .
no wait !
she s right .
we re moving !
we re on the surface .
i was hoping for another day .
it looks like we just got a whole lot more than that .
let s not waste it .
people listen up .
no one gets to sit down until they carry two pieces of equipment off this deck .
now let s go .
the last zero point module is depleted , but limited power has returned now that our generators aren t trying to hold back an ocean .
life support systems are working , but the planet s atmosphere is breathable , not withstanding the inevitable allergens .
so now could our naquada generators supply enough power to the shield for defensive purposes ?
not even close .
on the surface without a shield ; we re target practice .
i m acutely aware of that major , but thank you for reinforcing it .
when can you tell me where the wraith took colonel sumner and the others ?
even with the six symbols lt. ford provided ,
there are still hundreds of permutations  720 .
yes .
i knew that of course i m just surprised you do .
take away the coordinates you can t get a lock on , and that s you re one .
and when you find it , send a malp .
major , a word .
let me guess , you re not gonna let me rescue my people .
major , you don t even know if they re alive .
you don t leave people in the hands of the enemy .
and the fact that we are having this conversation in private
lets me know that you know damn well that it s wrong , and it will totally undermine your leadership .
so as ranking military officer i
all right , just shut up and listen to me for a moment , all right ?
come on , what do we know about the wraith .
one of the few things that we do know is that they are the enemy that defeated the ancients .
when we first began to use the stargate we found on earth we got ourselves into serious trouble .
why ?
i don t need to answer your question  because the people in charge didn t consider the ramifications before they reacted .
they took our people .
how am i supposed to react ?
and we re defenseless , you said so yourself .
how do you know going off on some half assed rescue mission isn t going to bring them all right back here to our doorstep ?
maybe it will , but it s the right thing to do .
why ?
because it is .
john  if we re not gonna do this , and i mean right now ,
let s just turn tail and pack up .
because they re coming
you don t know that .
our people are in the hands of the enemy , doctor .
do you know what that means ?
it s just a matter of time before the wraith figure out that this is the base of our operations .
i just need more information .
i mean who knows ?
maybe we could negotiate a peaceful
peaceful ?
are you kidding
we weren t there for more than a few hours before they showed up .
is it possible they came because of you ?
and that one of these people you brought back here with you tipped them off ?
it s possible .
see that is exactly the kind of snap decision i am referring to .
they re not all bad people .
and you know , if we re gonna stick around here we need friends .
okay , i see your point .
now you see mine .
i will not authorize a rescue mission unless
i am sure there is at least a remote chance of success .
i m not sending more good people , including you , to their deaths .
okay .
are you all right ?
where are we ?
any idea what to expect ?
no .
your friend was the one who said the wraith would come if we went down into the ruins .
perhaps you should have heeded his warning .
how do i know he s not the one who told them ?
someone comes .
i m colonel marshall sumner
no .
please .
take me in his place .
no , take me .
we re the ones you re after , right ?
i m their leader .
they have no need to explain themselves .
yeah , i got that .
we re receiving visual telemetry .
we can t see anything .
no atmospheric readings at all .
wait , what was that ?
rotate the camera .
well there goes that malp .
it s in space .
it s in high orbit around a planet on the far side of the galaxy .
you re sure this is the right address ?
it s the only one we could get a lock on .
very well .
shut it down .
i m sorry .
come with me , major .
think you can fly it ?
what do you say we find out ?
dr. beckett , what was it you wanted me to see ?
these cells have none of the normal human inhibiting proteins whatsoever .
that gives them an incredible ability to regenerate .
what about the movement major sheppard saw ?
as far as independent behavior ,
i say that anything he saw was caused by a residual command language in the severed nerve endings .
all right , anything else ?
the being this arm belonged to , if i was a betting man ,
i d say it was old .
very , very old .
how old ?
as long as the cells are properly nourished ,
i don t see a life form like this ever dying of natural aging the way we do .
and they d be bloody hard to kill .
well i don t like the sound of that .
i don t blame ya .
what is that noise ?
i ...
i don t he was right here .
major !
you said you wanted tactical advantage .
all right , so you can fly that thing . so you can fly that thing .
it doesn t mean you can pull off a rescue .
doctor , this is why you brought me here .
ready ?
i have no idea .
this technology is so far beyond us .
we don t have a clue what we re dealing with .
for all i know we could
yeah , i m ready .
all right boys , get ready to go .
gate ship one , ready to go .
gate ship one ?
a little puddle jumper like this ?
it s a ship , it goes through the gate .
gate ship one .
oh no , no , no .
that s all wrong .
dr. mckay thought it was cool .
oh , okay .
well it s official .
you don t get to name anything ever .
flight , this is puddle jumper ; we re go to launch .
all right , this is flight .
i thought we were going with gate ship ?
negative , flight .
stand by .
it s a ship that goes through the gate .
i
fine .
puddle jumper you are clear for launch .
dial it up , lieutenant .
be safe .
wow .
this is cool .
looks like you got the hang of it .
i il tell you what lieutenant a lot of fighter pilots would kill to fly this thing .
it s like it reads your mind .
did you do that ?
i was just wondering where we go from here .
i il take that as a yes .
so how do we find them once we land ?
well i ve been thinking about that too .
now i m thinking about a nice turkey sandwich .
worth a try .
lock and load .
all right , teams of two .
learn what you can ; lay down the defenses as you see fit .
i wanna be able to light this place up if we have to .
two clicks and you re clear to talk .
yes sir .
do not engage the enemy .
you re with me .
you must feel hunger by now .
i thought getting in was gonna be the hard part .
that s the first one we ve seen .
the moving dot should be him .
over there .
yeah , that s you .
so , we got ourselves a life signs detector .
you can name it later .
major .
shh .
are you all right ?
how did you find us ?
is my son alive ?
he s well and waiting for you .
where s colonel sumner ?
he was taken by the wraith .
we don t know where .
how about when ?
not long .
i knew something had to go wrong .
this is stackhouse , go ahead sir .
how bout a diversion a little bit ?
we re gonna need to make some noise out there .
yes , sir .
rig up the c4 to blow a hole and get these people out of here on my signal , all right ?
i can find the colonel with this , there aren t that many wraith around .
i should be able to do this .
if i m not back in 20 minutes , blow the cells and get out .
you re the only one who can fly these people out of here .
yeah i m gonna fly us all out of here , including the colonel .
i m saying i should be the one to go , sir .
twenty minutes , i il find him .
what do you call yourself ?
colonel marshall sumner , united states marine corps .
so little fear .
is it valor or ignorance ?
we traveled through the stargate as peaceful explorers .
you must eat , yet you resist your hunger .
why ?
why have you taken my people prisoner ?
you trespassed upon our feeding ground
feeding ground ?
all living things must eat .
in this i am sure we are similar .
you feel hunger even now ,
i can sense it .
yet , you resist .
why ?
why do you care ?
hunger is distasteful .
looks to me like the food didn t agree with him .
there we are quite dissimilar , colonel sumner .
we don t require our food to agree with us .
what do you call your world ?
what do you call your world ?
what do you call your world ?
earth .
it is not among our stars .
no .
tell me of earth .
how many more are there of your kind .
thousands ?
millions ?
more ?
our feeding ground has not been so rich in ten thousand years .
your will is strong .
this one begged for his life .
is that the kind of treatment i can expect for myself and my people ?
as i have said , all living things must eat .
then we re done talking .
i think not .
kneel .
i have not tasted such strength in so long .
go to hell .
earth first .
how many years must i take from you before you tell us what i wish to know ?
or shall i take them all ?
where is this new feeding ground ?
i won t ...
bring him .
how s the hand feeling ?
much better .
i m sorry to hear that .
how did this come to you ?
i don t remember .
light it up .
cover .
that has to kill you .
how d you find me ?
tread marks , standard issue .
sir , let s go .
you don t know what you have done .
we are merely the caretakers for those that sleep .
when i die the others will waken .
all of them .
what s she talking about ?
how many are left ?
sir , we need to leave .
bates , we re on the go .
so are we .
colonel sumner ?
negative .
dr. weir !
we re getting reports in from all over the city .
some uh pretty interesting stuff .
we ve only been able to provide power to certain sections , but even then , the things that are coming up are just
i should never have let them go .
for what it s worth , you made the right decision .
give them time .
major , the jumper is secure for the moment ,
but we have a big problem .
lieutenant , take our six .
i m gonna take them back to the jumper .
be right behind you .
there s nothing there .
i was sure i saw something .
only what the wraith wish you to see .
firing your weapon will reveal our position .
come on .
get in !
thank you , sir .
let s try not to make a habit of this .
we have incoming !
okay , now what am i thinking ?
everybody okay back there ?
we are well enough .
hope that was the hard part .
crap .
i don t think we ve gotten to the hard part yet .
what can we do ?
we re safe as long as they can t see us .
they don' t have to .
there s only one way for us to go .
the minute we activate the stargate they could start shooting blind and blow us away on our approach .
then how can we get through ?
we have to draw them away from the gate and double back .
be prepared to dial the gate on my mark .
you see anything like a weapons console over there ?
try and go invisible again .
i tried , it must be damaged .
dial the gate .
gate activation !
raise the shield .
be ready to punch in your code on the next pass .
what s the range on these things ?
do we have an identification code ?
nothing yet .
enter your code .
hang on .
i m reading lt. ford s idc .
let him in .
give them a few more seconds .
we re going too fast .
i know .
reactivate the shield !
ladies and gentlemen , welcome to atlantis .
please remain seated until the puddle jumper has come to a full complete stop .
i guess this is home now .
guess so .
i m thinking of a little place with an ocean view .
out of the way .
major , lieutenant , i thought the occasion merited opening this .
compliments of general o neill .
cheers .
you did good , john .
i don t know about that .
hey , there was no way you could have saved colonel sumner .
i have to live with it .
i m beginning to think you were right , i have made things much worse .
i haven t made us many more friends out there .
no ?
look around you .
i agree , major sheppard .
you have earned both my friendship and that of my people .
with our help you will make many more friends .
how come i never make friends like that ?
you need to get out more .
we re in another galaxy .
how much more out can you get ?
is there lemon in this ?
one more thing major .
it s something i d like you to sleep on .
i have a few thoughts for it myself , but  thoughts for what ?
who the members of your team might be ?
my team ?
well you are the ranking military officer now , or do you need to be reminded of that ?
we need to get back out there ; do what we came to do .
you do realize i could get us into all sorts of trouble .
ya ready ?
