billy was a former prostitue out of east berlin , had a reputation for being the dirtiest fighter in the ranks .
didn' t seem to matter to her that something like that could kill a person and the crowds loved her .
he turned her down without even telling her .
the next was to fight , the british champ , the jamaican girl billy just beat .
hello ?
not interested .
he turned that down too .
that' s a lot of money boss .
your making money what are you still working here for ?
it' s a title match right ?
are you british ?
it' s a title you can' t take away , she' s got nothing to lose , you got nothing to win .
might still be a good fight .
i just brought you up to welter weight , too good to fight these contenders , you' d rather fight some bullshit champ .
didn' t notice i was fighting any contenders .
well you can get yourself another manager anytime you want .
frankly i' d learn to protect your face a lil better wouldn' t have to turn down this money .
my face out there so much , it' s a miracle i haven' t been knocked out yet boss .
you can' t work here anymore tonight , i made us a reservation , you uh , might wanna shower .
here you go , here you go .
what' s this ?
well it aint no big secret for .
go ahead and blow em .
thank you .
33 aint so old , i was still fighting the 39 , fought for 23 years .
how' s it going scrap ?
doing good nicky , doing good . what' il ya have ?
coffee .
you do not speaketh ?
don' t hardly know him .
when i met frankie , right after my 37th birthday he was picking up cut work , he used to patch me up when i thought it was impossible , good man to have in the corner .
yes he is .
he stayed with me through my last fight in san bernadino too .
my manager was off getting drunk somewhere ,
it' s just frankie and me .
i was taking a hilacious beating .
everybody gots a particular number of fights in em ,
nobody tells you what that number is .
mine was 109 , i just didn' t want to admit it .
both rounds cut opens up , blood starts pouring into my eye , they should have stopped the fight , but hell i was black man in san bernadino , blood was what i was there for , round after round , i kept getting frankie to patch me up , he' s talking bout throwing in the towel , but he aint my manager he can' t throw in nothing , round after round he' s arguing with me , i' m almost laughing cause more to him than to me .
i go 15 rounds lose by decision , next morning i lose the eye .
in 23years he' s never said a thing about it .
doesn' t have to , i see it in his face everytime he looks at me , somehow frankie thinks he should have stopped that fight , should have saved my eye , it' s been his life wishing he could take back the 109th fight , i wanted to go to 110 , thing is , if you want to get to the title , maybe he' s not the one to take you there .
you tells mack i' d be here tonight ?
you go on and eat your cupcake .
it' s the rule , always protect yourself ,
people never take their own advice , if she was gonna leave frankie , better she did it to him then .
mr micky mack , i' m maggie fitzgerald , i hear your a real good manager doing good things for big willie , but i' d thought you should know i aint never leaving mr dunn , so you dont need to make anymore excuses to bump into me , sorry for interrupting your dinner .
maggie always did like taking em out in the first round .
the letters always came back marked the same way , " return to sender " .
oh i' il make ya some coffee .
what are you doing with your money ?
saving it .
good girl .
you know you save enough of it you get yourself a new house , cash no mortgage .
it' il be a while before i can do that .
yeah well it might be a stretch but , you got to get yourself a place of your own .
go around wasting it on things that don' t matter and what you got ?
understand ?
wait long enough , you got nothing .
ok , as soon as i get the money .
i' ve made a lot of mistakes in my life , i' m just trying to keep you from doing the same .
i know boss .
i' m not gonna live forever .
what is it ?
it' s a tape on that girl in england your gonna fight .
if your gonna go for the title we got some moves ...
hey get the hell down , know how old i am ?
thank you boss , thank you so much .
here just let me put this in the machine .
what machine ?
you dont have a tv huh ?
no .
alright , ok .
10 minutes love .
thank you , says he loves me .
oh he' s probably not the first one to say that .
first since my daddy . i win you think he' il propose ?
you win , i' il propose .
look i got you a gift here .
i think you gave me somebody else' s .
no no this is it .
what' s it mean ?
i dont know , just something in galac .
it' s beautiful .
ya i thought so , real silk thread .
she wasn' t the main attraction , she was only under card to the middle weight title fight .
but ask someone who was there , and they couldn' t tell you who else fought that night .
she' s tough ,
i can' t go inside , i can' t get close enough to hit her .
you know why that is ?
why ?
cause she' s a better fighter than you are that' s why , she' s younger , she' s stronger , and shes more experienced , now what are you gonna do about it ?
get in .
i could ask someone you know ?
good , you find out you let me know .
whatever it meant , the name stuck .
maggie fought in edinbourough , in paris , brussels , and amsterdam , it was always molkusha .
seems there' s irish people everywhere or people that want to be .
by the time they came back to the states , maggie was in a whole new league .
after that they got another offer to fight for the title .
what' s the split ?
60/ 40 .
good we' il take 60 and you take 40 , beeing as maggie' s the draw .
ugh , that little girl ?
you think i' m wrong really ?
you think people are saying that they want to see some scabby crout beat up on little miss what' s her name ?
you find someone that says that and we' il take the 40 ,
well there at 60/ 40 but they' il come up to 50/ 50 .
how' s that girl doing ?
she' s got a concusion , broken ear drum . she be alright ?
and if she isn' t ?
maybe i should send her something .
you could send her your check if you' d like , i' m sure she' d take it .
boss ? that lil house we talked bout , i bought it .
well smart girl .
for my momma .
it' s only about a mile from where she lives now , no mortgage just like you said .
your a good daughter .
she dont know about it yet .
i was hoping maybe we could stay an extra day , drive over there , i know she wants to meet you .
yeah , we could do that .
oh my god , momma come on out here , mariane' s here .
this is the johnson' s old house .
not anymore ,
it' s all yours momma , for you , mardel and the kids .
marianne you bought this for me ?
yeah all yours free and clear .
darling .
no fridge , no stove neither .
they' il be here before you move in .
how much money this cost you ?
you never mind that .
well you shouldn' t have done this .
you needed a decent place .
you shouldn' t have done it .
you should have asked me first .
darling gonna find out bout this house there gonna stop my welfare .
momma no they ain' t .
yeah they are , your fine , your working but , i can' t live with out my welfare .
momma i' d send you money .
what about my medicine ?
medicaid gonna cut me off , how am i suppose to get my medicine ?
i' d send you more money .
i hope you dont expect jd to move in here with us , he' s getting out ya know ?
why didn' t you just give me the money ?
why' d you have to buy me a house ?
didn' t have to momma , but it' s yours , you want the money ? sell it .
i dont ...
i know you didnt mean nothing hurtful by this , its just sometimes you dont think things through .
sure momma .
i' il try to keep the house , just worry about all those expenses .
i' il send ya some more money .
that man hitting you ?
it' s from the fight , i' m a fighter momma .
find a man marianne , live proper , people hear about what your doing and they laugh .
hurts me to tell you but , they laugh at you .
you ever own a dog ?
nope , closest i ever came was a middle weight from bardstown .
my daddy had a german shephard , axl , axl' s hind quarters were so bad he had to drag himself room to room by his front legs , me , me and mardel bust up laughing watching him scoop across the kitchen floor .
daddy , he so sick by then he couldn' t hardly stand himself , but one morning he got up , carried axl into his rig and the two of them went off into the woods singing and howling , but wasn' t til he got home that night alone , that i saw the shovel in the back of the truck .
sure miss watching the 2 of them together .
i got nobody but you frankie .
well you' ve got me .
at least that is , until we find you a good manager .
hey , can we stop just up here ?
yeah .
this place has the best lemon pie around , none of that can filling crap .
now i can die and go to heaven .
i used to come here with daddy .
i wonder if a place like this is for sale , i got a little bit of savings .
that' s fine , fine thanks .
hey what the hell is danger looking at ?
looks like another bottle of water .
wanna come to vegas with us ?
watch you suffer all the nickel slots , uh uh , my heart can' t take that kind of pounding .
well she' s got a title shot , the blue bear , million dollars split right down the center .
ah that' s good frankie , that' s real good .
well i could use a good 2nd , can' t find one , i thought i' d ask you .
now why the hell would i wanna do that ?
well cause your a half blind old fool who never got there himself ,
i thought you might like to feel what it' s like to be in the ring in a title match .
excuse me for feeling sorry for you .
nah you , you pick up somebody there in vegas , somebody with young hands .
your not gonna cry now are ya ?
i' ve already got one girl .
nah , i leave this place for one day got any idea what it would look like when i come back ?
kinda like it looks right now .
oh go to hell .
you tell maggie dont come back here with out a belt .
will do .
hey mr grant , i got a question i feel real stupid asking it .
no such thing as a stupid question now there danger .
how' d you get all the ice in here through this little tiny hole ?
i' ve been thinking on it , can' t figure it out . why dont i show you danger .
you could do that ? you could show me ?
i think so .
also mr grant , i was kinda thinking i might be ready for a fight .
well i got the tickets you ready ?
we' re flying ?
would you rather drive ?
your asking me ?
would you rather fly , or would you rather drive ?
so i finally get to decide something ?
that' s what i' m saying .
fine , fly there , drive back .
that' s the stupidest thing i' ve ever heard of , how the hell we gonna do that ?
you said it was up to me .
give em hell now danger .
hey old school , toilet' s over flowing .... hey flippie come here for a minute .
ah jesus , jesus joseph .
dumb ass .
could' ve been up at the mirage drinking mai tai' s
looking at naked women .
danger get out of there .
fight back , come on .
hey come on now flip , what you doing , let him go .
i got you , c' mon c' mon , sorry .
we dont need no corner trainer .
how' d i , how' d i do mr grant ?
you did good danger , you did real good , you my man , you rock .
oh c' mon flip man you aint done , you aint even fight good yet .
anybody can lose one fight , anybody can lose once , you' il come back from this you' il be champion of the world .
i wont mr grant , i should of known .
c' mon old school man we dont need to be talking ..
i know i can' t do this i' m tired of velkro .
c' mon dont take the gloves off man , you aint even used em danger .
my fight , may i borrow this danger ?
ah man i thought your name was danger .
c' mon now , oh oh i see , now i get to fight a retard and an old man , call espn cause you can' t write this shit .
110 .
get a job punk .
win this one i' il tell you what it means .
i got you some pipers .
i want you to jab , right in the tits , until they turn blue and fall off .
ladies and gentlemen this is the feature presentation of the evening , in this corner , the challenger maggie fitzgerald in the red corner , in the blue corner the wba welter champion of the world , billy the blue bear .
sweet jesus .
alright that' s it , i' m gonna take away a point , 1 point deduction off the blue corner .
ladies and gentlemen the first round is in the books on this championship match .
looking good .
you pull that crap one more time your disqualified .
it' s gonna be alright .
got no doubt boss .
just watch yourself , stay away from her .
go to the neutral corner , neutral corner .
stay down you bitch .
i got it , i got it .
how' s the blood boss ?
how many eyes do you need to finish this fight ?
one' s enough .
now , what do i do about the bear ?
stepping to the outside and hooking the liver ?
i' ve been doing that , she' s waiting to steal .
i know but i dont want you to go to the liver this time , i want you to heel , right up under her skinny ass , understand ?
right in the cianic nerve , just keep digging it in there , digging it in , and just keep sticking her , you hear that ?
what about the ref ?
just keep yourself between the ref and the bear and things' il just be fine .
this is yours , keep your guard up , keep it up .
c' mon breathe , that' s it , breathe , good ....
how you feeling darling ?
i wanna beard boss .
i thought it might help me with the ladies .
can' t say it does .
does it , does it hurt much ?
don' t hurt at all .
that' s good .
where' s frankie ?
he' s uh , he' s out there talking to the doctors , probably telling them how to do their job .
there telling em i' m a c1 and c2 complete , means my spinal cord is still broken never be able to breathe easy .
that i' il be frozen like this for the rest of my life .
i asked them to tell him , i dont know how' s he gonna take it .
did you see the fight ?
of course i did .
you had her cold maggie .
i should' nt have dropped my hands , i shouldn' t have turned ,
always protect myself how many times he would tell me that .
yeah he does like to repeat himself .
well you tell him , i' m real sorry .
no , i wont do no such thing maggie .
damnest thing , so what' s the plan , i know you got one , so you might as well tell me what it is ?
it' s your fault , yeah it' s your fault she' s lying in there like that , you kept after me until i trained her , i knew i shouldn' t have done it , her being a girl and all everything kept telling me not to , everything but you .
i' m gonna get you outta here , doctors around here dont know squat , why would they be living here out in the desert , as soon as you' il be able to be moved , find some place where they actually studied medicine , you just rest there and i' m on it .
frankie must have called every hospital in america looking for somebody who would tell him they could fix her , came close twice , til they checked her over said there was nothing to be done , took 2 months til she was stable enough to move .
they got nurses for that you know .
the' re amateurs .
she developed skin cause she couldn' t change positions .
thank you .
it made the 6th trip by ambulance .
fly there , drive back .
the rehab center frankie found was a nice place , they took good care of maggie she would have complained if they hadn' t .
took her several hours everyday to get her ready for the wheel chair .
since she couldn' t breathe on her own , the resperators were always on , oxygen was pumped in her 24hours a day .
maggie' s momma called to say they were all coming for a visit , she waited by the window everyday for the next 2 weeks .
frankie finally tracked them down , learned they checked into their hotel 6 days earlier , kept leaving messages which were never returned .
you dont have to hang around all day .
no , i like it here , i dont mind , fact if you weren' t here i' d come here anyway to read my books .
momma' il be here soon to share some of the burden .
oh it' s no burden , here read this .
ok ok that' s enough , that' s terrible .
but anyway i' il tell ya in english what your saying , it says that " i will arise and go now , and go to in its free , in a small cabin built there of clay and waddles made , and i shall have some peace there , for peace comes dropping slow , dropping from the vales of the morning to where the crickets sings .
not bad huh ?
you gonna build a cabin boss ?
me ?
yeah , you know when you quit all this .
you mean boxing ?
no i' il never quit ,
like the stink too much i guess .
you think ? cause i could see you there real easy with your books and lemon pie .
how about you would you like to go live in a cabin ?
i could learn how to bake .
ya well then i' il maybe i' il start looking then .
hi i' m frankie dunn , i met you back out in missouri . where' s my little girl ?
well don' t you think you oughta go back to the hotel and change , she doesn' t know you' ve been here a week visiting woody and mickey .
we got business with my sister , why dont you tell us where she is ?
well you must be jd and you must be the business guy ,
look there' s some rides you missed , why don' t you just go on back and i' il tell her you couldn' t make it .
i drove all the way here to take care of my child and your suggesting i' m not a good mother ?
marianne can' t go no where , if we could have taken her to disneyland we would' ve .
maggie fitgerald ?
right down here 301 .
> <
just some kind of legal thing . what is it ?
how we all doing here ?
sorry darling but we aint got alot of time , mr johnson is charging us a lot of money to be here to make sure this is done proper .
why dont you just leave that and i' il read it to her later ?
hey old man , you part of our family ? stay the hell out of this .
read it to me momma .
just something legal , protect your money .
momma you dont have to worry , the boxing commission is paying for all this , everything .
what if they dont marianne ? mr johnson says they can take my house .
if you assign your assets to your mother no one will be able to touch them .
no doctors , no funeral expenses , nothing .
now look , why dont you just leave it and i' il just read it to her later on .
mr dunn with respect this aint your business .
alright , i' il be out in the hall .
you' ve been a good daughter marianne , you sign that paper it' il take care of your family ,
like the way your daddy would have wanted you to , uh how do you make your mark .
can you hold a pen ?
she gotta do it with her teeth momma .
huh ?
you got to put it in her mouth .
here you go honey .
did you see the fight momma ?
now you know how i feel about that .
i did pretty good .
you lost marianne , ain' t your fault the way i heard it but you lost , dont want to lost the rest of what you got left .
what happen to you ?
what' s that supposed to mean ?
momma you take mardee and jd get home , before i tell that lawyer there your so worried about your welfare you never signed those house papers like you were supposed to ,
so anytime i feel like it , i can sell that house from under your fat lazy hill billy ass , and if you ever come back , that' s exactly what i' il do .
well maybe someone oughta count to 10 .
doesn' t smell real pretty does it doc ?
you might have to lose it maggie .
they took my leg boss .
it' s gonna be alright , here .
all i hear is your voice boss .
need anything ?
need to know what mokulsha means .
well , you didn' t win , i dont have to tell ya .
you are the meanest man i' ve ever met , no wonder no one loves you ,
you remind me of my daddy .
well he must have been a very intelligent , handsome man .
you ain' t gonna make me tap no more 8' s are ya ?
no i was , looking at this catalog from city college ,
i thought i' d get ya a wheel chair maybe the kind that operates by moving through a straw , thought maybe you' d like to go back to school .
got a favor to ask you boss .
sure , anything you want .
well i want what my daddy did for axl .
don' t even think about that .
i can' t be like this frankie , not after what i' ve done , i' ve seen the world , people chanted my name , hell , not my name , some damn name you gave me , they were chanting for me ,
i was in magazines , you think i' d ever dream that happen ?
i was born 2 pounds 1/ 2 ounces , daddy used to tell me i' d fight to get into this world , and i' d fight my way out , that' s all i wanna do frankie , i just dont want to fight you to do it ,
i got what i needed , i got it all , dont let em keep taking it away from me , dont let me lie here til i can' t hear those people chanting no more .
i can' t , please , please dont ask me .
i' m asking .
can' t .
hello .
in the middle of the night , maggie had found the wrong solution , she' d bit her tongue .
stop , stop , look at me look at me .
nearly bled to death before they stitched her up , she came around and ripped them out before frankie even got there , they stitched her up again , padded the tongue so she couldn' t bite .
you can' t do it , you know that .
i do father , you dont know how thick she is , how hard it was to train her , other fighters would do exactly what you would say to them and , she' d ask why this , and why that , and do it her own way anyway , she fought for the title , wasn' t by anything , wasn' t by listening to me .
but now she wants to die , and i just want to keep her with me ,
and i swear to god father it' s , it' s committing a sin by doing it , by keeping her alive i' m killing her , how do i get around that ?
you don' t , you step aside frankie , you leave her with god .
she' s not asking for god' s help , she' s asking for mine .
frankie i' ve seen you at mass almost everyday for 23 years , the only person that comes to church that much is the kind that can' t forgive themself for something , whatever sins you carry there nothing compared to this , forget about god , or heaven and hell , if you do this thing , you' d be lost , somewhere so deep .
you' il never find yourself again .
i' m keeping her sedated so she wont try that again .
went to see maggie this morning , you must have been somewhere else .
ya .
you got a fighter i dont know about ?
wasn' t your fault , i was wrong to say that .
your damn right , i found you a fighter , and you made her the best fighter she could be .
i killed her .
don' t say that , maggie walked through that door with nothing but guts , no chance in the world of being what she needed to be , a year and a half later she' s fighting for the championship of the world , you did that , people die every day frankie mopping floors , washing dishes , and you know what their last thought is , i never got my shot , because of you maggie got her shot , if she dies today you know what her last thought would be ?
i think i did alright .
i know i could rest with that .
ya , ya .
i' m gonna get a cup of coffee .
alright ,
i' m gonna disconnect your air machine and your gonna go to sleep
and i' il give you a shot and you' il stay asleep .
mokulsha means " my darling , my blood
he gave her a single shot , it was enough adrenaline to do the job a few times over , he didn' t want her going through this again .
then he walked out , i dont think he had anything left .
i went back to the gym , waited figuring he' d turn up sooner or later
and that' s when a ghost came through the door .
i got to thinking what you said mr grant .
and what was that danger ?
anybody can lose one fight .
that' s the truth , go ahead and put your clothes on , you missed a lot of training . will do mr grant , sure thing .
frankie never came back at all ,
frankie didn' t leave a note , and nobody knew where he went ,
i' d hope he' d gone to find you , to ask you one more time to forgive him , but maybe he didn' t have anything left in his heart , i' d just hope he found some place where he could find a little peace , a place set in the cedars and oak trees , somewhere between no where and goodbye , but that' s probably wishfull thinking , no matter where he is , i thought you should know what kind of man your father really was .
