walk !
walk !
don' t stop !
hurry !
hurry up , don' t stop !
jesus bless you
forever and ever !
amen !
going down to hell with your egg frying pan !
hurry up !
faster !
faster !
a bit faster !
hurry up !
your !
keep walking !
kremer , kremer !
here , take it !
we were lying at madagascar , got infected with the plague
at there , we pray with latin
everything is soaked by the water , everyday there is one man passed away
hey !
hi !
my friends ...
the priest pray with latin
when captain yelled , yes , the sailors quiet down immediately
because everyone missed their hometown
the hometown they dream to see once again .
attention !
bertram is here
keep singing
we were lying at madagascar , got infected with the plague
everything is soaked by the water , everyday there is one man passed away
my friends ...
please take care , young lady
take care , take care !
when captain yelled , yes , the sailors quiet down immediately
come on !
come here , you poland priest pig
can' t you be more elegant when singing deutsch songs ?
looks like i have to teach you the tempo sense , start from beginning ...
we were lying at madagascar , got infected with the plague
everything is soaked by the water , everyday there is one man passed away
it' s you again , you arrogant man !
the priest with egg frying pan
i ordered , sing !
sing quickly !
go , hurry !
move on !
stupid , listen to the order !
god write down secrets with symbols
we expose it to the world
the sacrifice of jesus is because our sin
he devoted everything by his death
the blood of jesus ...
do you really believe the god exists ?
where is he ?
you see it around here ?
pull him up !
in the jesus blood , we found ... the best way to escape from depression
the goddes maria breeds us
jesus lets human with equal status
he came to search , what we lost ...
who kept singing , who' s the next to be hanged ! ... jesus promised with swear : no matter when i' il always be with you
is this your mother ?
you' re so lucky , i never seen my mother
how long have you been here ?
i can' t remember
follow up !
hurry !
hurry !
keep the pace the same !
hurry switch over !
left , right ...
left ... left ... left ...
hurry !
left ... left ...
no .
25639
go , follow me !
go now !
get out of here
walking so slow !
be quick !
come here , come here !
you priest pig !
please sign !
how much in total ?
30 mark and 50 cent , charging leader sir !
it' s enough for the trip to luxembourg isn' t it ?
you' re freed .
have a nice trip !
pig priest .
luxembourg , sunday , january 15 , 1942
mr. kremer ?
please step into the car !
welcome to luxembourg !
please allow me to introduce myself
nazi charging leader , gebhardt .
you want go back with your family ?
saarbrcken street , thanks .
please come to pual' s casttle tomorrow morning at 10 we' re going to discuss the topic we will both feel interesting
thank you , i' il pray for you .
mr. kremer ...
i hope you can arrive on time tomorrow !
henry !
henry ...
oh my god !
how do you find us ?
we' re knocked out of our own home it' s been occupied by nazi
henry !
roger ...
raymond
hurry , sit down !
where is your mother ?
no one told you ?
our mother has passed away
these shoes are too small but how about this ?
credentials !
i' m here for mr. gebhardt
upstair , turn left
luxembourg civil law administration charging leader gebhardt office
i' m very sorry , he is in the interrogation hello , mr. kremer
priest !
priest kremer ok , please come in !
hellow , mr. kremer
so , you don' t want to take off your overcoat ?
good morning .
have you took enough rest before coming back ?
i' m truely sorry about your mother passed away
she has been here a lot before and she speaks a lot for you ...
yes , please put the call through to prison camp commander mr. dachau
dear mother , i' m here , and getting used here
yes and will soon be a pig of the prison camp , can' t look back , can' t have sympathy to others can only dump into it , living under darkness silently
this is the last letter for you in the prison camp what do you mean ?
why men become the pig of this prison camp ?
long live , hitler ...
yes , thank you .
this thing is about the prison 25639 .
no , he has arrived but very sad , there is a big mistake
mr. kremer is not freed , he just got the vacation yes , 9 days precisely and only one rule : if mr. kremer tries to escape all the prisoned priest in luxembourg will be executed death without exception
long live !
hitler !
very sorry , this is the order from the boss besides , i do not totally agree to their decision
i think you should be thankful that i give you this vacation .
i think , i should give you this chance for you to say goodbye with your monther please sit
because your action opposed german you' re arrested at the french boundary
please smoke !
you had been working for french government joined the " french luxembourg mission " which is against the third empire ... and try to destory the german construction in luxembourg isn' t it ?
mr. kremer
you' re a very good speaker this is seen from your anti racism speech
of course you have your reason !
jesus is also jewish
but the jewish keep depressing themselves
if allowable , i' il start from the story long time ago , for all these we have to thank for the jesus christ
because of him , we know what we have to be aware of
to us , we have to be aware of jewish
even if only myself to defend the jewish , i will fight for the jesus' s bible
don' t you want one ?
oh , yes
here , have a chocolate , this you can' t resist !
you skiped !
absolutely not !
you did !
you' re too slow ... but now i jumped over !
what ? is he on time ?
on time for a few minutes people can speak to the priest of what they want because they have principals , you should not under estimate him
he is relied by the vatican , there must be some reason .
yes
he is the cardinal' s famous person , his family is also very well known
the whole vatican is a big house , and luxembourg is just a brick of a damaged house if we take off the brick , the walls will fall
but what if kremer escape ?
he won' t !
he is very clear , what would this bring to his brothers but will he cooperate with us ?
province political party leader , there is rumor saying ... the pope will be soon deciding the action to the jewish problem
we should be prepared .
the pope will still come to congratulate our leader' s birthday every year and call him the " most respectable mr. hitler
right now he criticize the allize force to the german' s attack
i have no complain to the vatican , the holy see at least for now ...
i hope to get the report everyday goodbye !
mr. charging leader you' re a powerful person but if your plan failed , even if you have good relationships with the top couldn' t help you at all
we need a lot of talented people for the east prison camp
oh , i remembered .
you were there before .
if this is a vacation , are you going back to the dachau' s camp ?
people have to stay at their position ... stay where he belongs to , and believe in god .
what' s this mean ?
i can' t ...
nazi treats the priest better than the others usually , 4 people have only one bread but we can have one for each 3 priests they hope , every other people will hate us
are you going back ?
if you can' t eat now , then eat it later
if he tried to escape , we' il also be punished what the bullshit you' re talking about !
his feet is soo big that no shoes can fit in where can he escape ?
all these things were from raymond , should fits you
i changed the waist of trousers to be smaller
this shoes is from roger , 2 sizes bigger than yours
your book is in that basket , we can hardly bring you anything
henry kremer ...
jesus christ bless you
long live !
amen
gerard mersch .
i' m the new manger of the church adminstrator
it has never been one priest has granded for vacation from the camp .
thanks
i' m very sorry , are you sure you' re not wrong ?
next week , i have to go back to dachau' s camp we can let down the hope !
i have to go to see the gestapo , i' il be back tomorrow .
why ?
i don' t know
vatican pope decided to announce another church policy we' re contacting with nazi , this should have advantage
if we do this then the church will soon have nazi flag on top
please forgive me , i have to prepare for a mass
what' s our cardinal say about these ?
he does not step out of his room anymore
he does not want to have any direct contact with any politics
as the symbol of against and protest , the church bell has ringed whole day
hitler accepted the requests from the pope
the request to give the special priority to the priest inside the camp
this decision has sure reducing the pressure for you right ?
that' s right !
you should thank the pope once again
before celebration today , i want to know whom am i serving for ?
the name , the job ?
jozef weida bishop area , czestochowa
you ?
i' m the cardinal kozal of bruno church
next ?
armando bausch
priest coming from luxembourg , editor ah , another form luxembourg
you have a lot of people coming from there little country but have a lot of mouth
name ?
nansen clerical
professor from oslo university
drink off !
drink all !
drink off !
drink all !
you sure don' t like our german' s mossel grape wine !
get out !
go to the basement !
so ?
hurry up !
the saint god father kept praying for his followers also pray for the priests in the camp the loving goddess maria will take care of him how many people he saved by this ? but maybe after the pope changed his attitude ... we' il have more people died in the prisoner camp henry , no matter what you have experienced
you should not give up the faith to god
some people keep silence is just for help ...
help the followers won' t make the situation become worse
they give you a vacation must be some reason ! one important reason is your family have a very famous fame in luxembourg
henry , maybe they' il do some special use to you what do you mean ?
the church is facing the tough challenge ! our attitude will decide , if there will be more people' s death
if we obey german within our allowable conscience we' il get more than we resist them
learn smarter , henry .
listen carefully to what gebhardt spoke to you
our world is a lot more complicated than your small prisoner camp there , everything is exposed , have your own rules everything follow the order
this vacation can help you to see the whole thing by the extensive contacts for an exmaple you familiar , we' re doing a saint and a meanful battle
i think personally
amount us , all the great things are being placed by god .
the sacred of yours , has nothing to do with the jesus christ but your pope thinks further .
if you see the 1933 agreement , you' il see the signature from the pope .
1933 ?
he can' t predict the things today .
you attack poland , then frence , holland , belgium , luxembourg
oh yes ?
the pope should knew it at that time threats from bolshevism !
he is very clear , our war is justice he always sorrow for his own fate but in the east line of the battle field , jesus christ decides the future on his own
please take a look at this artifact !
please look carefully !
our soldier saved it .
they discovered that it is being used by the russian moscow .
area administrator as a stepping stone .
bolshevik changed the church of russia into factories and jail .
they have no concern in destroying the christian and their precious artifacts .
people serving god has been tortured , killed , and expelled .
all these are catholic sacrifice under bolshevism .
these are your brothers !
look at the small cross on the corpses .
all these happened just one year ago .
can you imagine , can we make such rude crime ?
in dachau' s camp , they' il only sentence the priest into the cremation field people often see some priest lying among the corpse and still alive
but they still got executed
nazi think this is useful , people can be forgive during the way to the heaven
mr. kremer
you and i are mentally brothers .
your mother realized this and she is surprised that sacred statue has been damaged like this
she is a true believer , she believes you
she believes that the coorpration between catholic and the thrid emporer is specially important .
you can' t resist this ! what do you want from me ?
from a priest pig coming from the church !
the german cardinal already kissed the hitler' s feet .
catholic will be very important after the battle in europe but the disappointed thing is ...
the priest league like this will not exist anymore .
mr. gebhardt , have you ever think once ?
what will happen if the war failed ?
this is our war , mr. kremer .
this is a crusade .
we have to keep praying , use weapon to arm our soldiers .
otherwise , what covering us will only be chaos i pray for the brothers of my inside the prison camps for my family , for luxembourg .
german has a great interest in the conversation with vatican pope .
think and respect to the luxembourg' s wills .
it' s just your cardinal pope declined you want me to disobey the cardinal pope ? no , we just hope you can make him regain his rationality and also the bell from the great church .
he does not do any good things for luxembourg .
he just holds the abolished policies in hands .
heydrich .
but there is another activity going in our party .
church will be kept as people wished and find a new way
in russian , they need missionary , to preach to the people there
please sit down , we can have a good talk about this problem ... this statue is in your office .
it has no single effect on me .
virgin mary did not know , the child in her arms ... ... would be crucified someday
where will you end it , priest ?
what will your mother say about all of this ?
the martyr ?
read this
please read it out loudly !
we , the conclavists of luxemburg ... ... are advocates of the nazi' s church policy
we announce this in the name of our truthful faith
this is for our holy church' s existence only we stand in the side of the 3rd reich and its monarch adolf hitler , this can be possible
please give it to the conclavist
if you don' t receive a invitation go to the parochial purser .
he' s a wise man , he should be affected by this .
your sis is pregnant , do you know that ?
i don' t know .
how do you know it ?
goodbye !
take a good consideration .
there' s not much days left of your holidays .
bless us , holy mary
sir , i must talk to the conclavist
i' m afraid it can be difficult .
he' s in bad health .
it' s about all lives of the priests in luxemburg !
the conclavist' s on your side .
your pain is his too .
and it' s also the whole vatican' s pain .
but excuse me , i can' t let you present yourself before him .
then which side are you on ?
the conclavist will listen to you , won' t he ?
please don' t do this !
i can only give him advice .
i have the thing which gebhardt' d like to give to the conclavist .
i can deliver it .
no , i must talk to him .
i' il see what i can do to help you .
henry , i' il try my best .
dear mother , i don' t know who i shall confess to .
i didn' t know what the thirst' s like before .
the sun can be so dreadful .
they didn' t give us water in the camp .
this kind of pain is indescribable .
we were holed up in a labor camp ... ... working for a powder mill .
i don' t know how to describe this ...
at that moment , my heart halted .
i was dubitative , how can there be water in that pipe ?
you must talk to henry , he' il listen to you !
tell him that ...
tell him what ?
the gestapo won' t compromise .
what on earth do they want from him ?
he puts us in grum danger .
you must know this !
maria , talk to him
what can i tell him ?
ask him go back to the dachau camp ?
you want he lose his family just because us ?
you just want this , don' t you ?
you' re pregnant !
don' t pretend that you don' t care .
my late mother always said ...
he is our guardian angel .
i really hope you can be like him , just a little bit like him .
henry !
henry !
henry ...
henry , let go !
it' s me , henry !
what are you doing ?
henry !
let go !
henry !
wake up ...
henry
henry
good morning .
captain gebhardt now has an appointment .
you have to wait for a while .
good morning .
please take a seat .
what a pity , it' s cold in this restaurant .
what do you want to taste ?
be my guest .
how about some scrambled eggs ?
it' s pretty delicious here .
i' m honored that you came , some coffee ?
okay
i seldom come to luxemburg .
i' ve settled in lorraine .
for better steel supply to your weaponry production
only prepare breakfast for this mister !
yes , sir .
our consul in france , otto abetz , he collects lots of information about you .
you' ve been to paris to attend the economic conference of the conquered country .
in the meeting , you were asked to improve productivity
mr. consul , this is difficult for me , because my brother' s being imprisoned in a camp prison .
mr. kremer , if it was not me , your brother was still in the dachau camp .
he' il be sent back there soon .
i' m glad to help your brother .
he can be useful in the church .
only if he' d like to .
i don' t know a darned thing about the church' s problem .
i only know something about the carrying trade .
for example ...
i know you' re lack of construction material , steel , aviation , fuel ...
berlin lets yourselves solve them .
perhaps i can give you some help .
you get a very high position , though you' re still very young ,
you have to consider those issues !
do you want to do business with me ?
we come here not for discussing this .
thanks .
i only hope , this talk will be a secret just between two sane men .
if i give the chief of the french economic bureau a call , tell him ... ... what you said to me just now .
do you think what consequence it would be ?
you' il put your brother right back into the camp yourself .
you' re right , the egg is yum indeed !
hail hitler , captain , just a moment ...
mr. kremer , i didn' t see you .
please come in !
good morning !
please take a seat .
what did he say ?
i didn' t see him .
i don' t mean the conclavist .
what' s the meaning of the song ?
it' s my wife' s favourite song .
but i don' t know its meaning .
you know both languages , can you translate it ?
what ?
beautiful memory ...
please wait a minute !
the night full of bright stars ...
i don' t understand
charming memory ...
sweet dream ...
sweet dream ...
and moonlight shining on the surface of the ocean .
thanks , my wife' s gonna love this
i' m very sorry that you didn' t see the conclavist
he' s sick !
i don' t know if he' s gonna see me or not
but nonetheless i know just what he' il say
luxemburg is not a judas' s country
do you know what my mentor did to me ?
judas ...
this treacherous action i' ve been doing for a long time
it' s a fascinating phenomenon !
jesus and judas , they' re like brothers .
they depend on each other .
but judas betrayed jesus for thirty silver coins .
but he didn' t take any , he threw them away into a temple .
it implies that he didn' t betray jesus for money .
judas is cursed !
god forsook him .
that' s what we learnt in our religion course .
i think judas is devout .
maybe the devoutest disciple of all time .
yes , he' s also an idealist .
just like any jewish liberator .
with the help of jesus , he planned a rebellion against the king , the country and the bishop .
please say no more !
what are those theological discussion for ?
i have no interests in discussing my belief with you .
your holiday does its job .
you become more direct !
that' s great !
it makes your speaking vivid .
my mother wished me to become a priest .
a priest just like you .
she also hoped i could gain honors for my family .
her son' s serving in church , which' il make her very pride .
a priest is just a jack a lent .
she knew this very well .
she was very devout .
but she' s also just a mortal on earth .
she once sent me to a dance school to study .
i' ve tried my best to avoid becoming a priest , not for her .
i always believe that you can become what you want to become .
it' s not vital whether you' re in camp prison or not .
please go and persuade the conclavist .
like what judas did to the bishop ?
yes !
judas was an adventurous man .
he wanted to change the world .
he thought jesus was the king of the world .
but god appointed him other mission .
betrayal doesn' t belong to god' s holy plan .
it' s just a small step in the plan .
the holy bible says , judas is the strongest apostle .
he can accomplish this errand .
no judas , no crucifix .
then there' s also no god' s salvation .
you mean , " no judas , no church " ?
you understand what i mean .
on the contrary , the conclavist doesn' t accept these new thoughts .
what judas did is an enlightenment .
please consider it .
it will be a helpful experience for you .
it changes me a lot .
may peace be with you ... ... forever , amen .
hail hitler .
henry , get in .
you must leave quickly !
come to paris with me .
you can hide there ... ... and continue working for the french .
or you can go to genevese , i can help you .
find the red cross !
i can' t abandon you .
listen , you' re bluffing now !
you lost your car ?
i demand his personal explanation !
lost ?
we tracked them down all the way to the stronghold .
the army blocked the road , we had to stop .
when the road was opened , it was too late .
i have your personal assurance !
stop !
i' il take you to a safe place in despite of you like it or not
you must stop .
are you nuts ?
yes , i am !
a prisoner of the camp is on his holiday .
a group of gestapoes with cigars in their mouths track me down .
do you know what they want from me ?
they want to destroy my belief !
they want me to betray my church .
no judas , no jesus . " do you understand ?
only the strong one can survive the camp prison .
only the cunning man can achieve his goal .
only like this , a man can find a way out for all .
as for you , two weeks at most .
you' il need a linkman in the kitchen .
only he can feed you .
you will know how people die in a labor camp after four weeks .
yes , for surviving , people must think carefully .
you can , but i can' t .
what' s up ?
you leave from my house , quickly !
what are you looking for ?
who are you ?
what do you want ?
no other persons .
now what to do ?
where' s your brother ?
i warn you , tell us whatever you know at once
if he gets away , i' il arrest you .
tell us everything !
i don' t know where he is .
arrest her !
let me put on my overcoat .
there' s no need for you anymore .
leave .
how can you do this to my sis , my brother and my sis' s husband ?
isn' t it enough for just arresting me ?
must our whole family go to camp prison ?
what the heck are you worrying about ?
me ?
my family ?
or the whole luxemburg ?
i' m dreadful sorry for bringing so much trouble to you .
you' re my brother !
i thought you went to paris with irmgard .
he went there alone .
i saw him off .
dear mother
the next night there' s only one single thing in my mind .
and that' s water .
do not move , you filth prisoner !
take off your hat !
number off !
i keep asking myself whether i should share this with my brothers .
or just tell nansen , who' s the weakest among us .
i pray to god , but the pain of thirst is stronger than anything .
the next day i come there again .
there' s not much water .
but it' s enough for one person .
warm , a little bit salt .
it' s so wonderful .
it moistens my dry lips , it' s so tasteful .
kremer ?
kremer ?
go back to your row .
the chief warden' s looking for you .
at that monment i comprehended i was a sinner .
i was a greedy selfish sinner .
water , water !
don' t give up .
listen , don' t give up !
i' m not gonna make it !
god is testing us !
god' s with us !
it' s ok ...
it' s ok ...
god trusts us !
kremer
merciful god , forgive me , forgive me .
only like this , again and again .
mother , forgive me .
yes , i survive ...
nansen dies ...
the question haunts me all the time .
those water ...
if i shared those water with him , would he survive ?
after that , i saw his face in my dream every night .
i followed his steps .
why don' t say something ?
you' re not responsible for your friend' s death .
you just think you could have saved him .
and he didn' t blame you either .
the encyclical says ...
all the buring pain will burn out .
the nazi violently betrayed jesus christ .
hatred and blood spreads everywhere .
please believe me .
since the very first day , i' ve just wanted to hug kremer .
but if gebhardt asked him to come , then i cannot see him .
and that' s also because of him .
this is an announcement which the vatican sends to the berlin reich security office hq .
for seeking for building a new type of european church policy .
the denial of this chance is a loss to luxemburg .
if only luxemburg agreed the bishop' s resolution that day and ... expressed to support nazi' s church policy , then it would be a trophy to berlin .
alienating the relationship between rome and us .
i told kremer about this .
but as the conclavist , you should have much more resource to manipulate .
when will kremer end his so called " holiday " ?
in three days .
what' s your opinion ?
is it just a fate for one single priest ?
or for other reasons ?
you can' t help me anymore ...
sir .
please come in .
do you get any message from the bishop ?
no ?
then please be more !
you don' t come here for relaxation .
you can go back today !
yes , he' s a patient .
i hope he die as soon as possible .
it would settle everything with the parochial purser .
this damn poor sow priest !
sow priest ?
he' s the spiritual mentor of the whole luxemburg .
in my opinion , he' s just a poor worm who' s crimpling in his robe all day .
you and i , we' re aboveboard .
or maybe there' re other people ?
i think i know what you' re thinking .
say something
i think you know nothing about this !
under your order , what' s going on there in the camp prison ?
you think you would know everything about the camp prison if you just had a talk with its commander ?
what do you know ?
thousands of german soldiers died in the east line .
this is the monarch' s command .
this is god' s wish .
why don' t you become a priest ?
you finally asked a good question .
a glass of water ?
i' ve read your doctorial thesis , it' s really nice .
there are so much proof to prove god' s existence .
the subject is a limelight .
but it felt wonderful to throw a boomerang .
truly .
it' s a philosophical sport .
whatever you throw away , it' il go back to you .
mister gebhardt , the conclavist doesn' t want to see me .
even if he does , he' il never agree to sign .
never
we don' t care about him !
follow me !
luxemburg belongs to the reich .
one country , one roman catholicism .
german church policy ... doesn' t violate the vatican .
the catholic priests of luxemburg support this policy .
you , priest kremer announce it publicly .
you criticize the conclavist publicly .
you must finish this by tomorrow .
just two days before i left the seminary
i denied to wear the black uniform , this is my own action against god .
yes .
i was vice officiant at that time .
as a priest , can i change this world ?
i can' t .
can i make this world a better place ?
i can' t either .
but in the camp of our monarch ...
under his great lead , i feel like i' m important .
i drive the wheel of the history to run , and i' ve already done it in my heart for a long time .
my faith gives me strength to accomplish all of my errands .
judas !
you are it !
ah , finally you get it !
i think you just comprehended the true meaning of judas .
why don' t you drink up the water ?
back in the camp , you should have drunk it up already .
although you didn' t say it , but i know .
you betrayed your brothers in arms , for surviving .
you finally make your life meaningful .
if i did what you told me , what would happen to my brothers in the camp prison ?
you don' t believe the justice of god ?
everyone cooperate with us will be set free .
be set free ?
yes , just get his agreement .
you should write for living , not for dead .
your fate is on your hand i am waiting for your compellent report .
just as the wonderful article which against law of race .
sorry , henry .
go ahead , i wait here .
we just excrete only once one day in the concentration camp and finish it in one minute , if we don' t finish it he will face the menace of death .
doctor is the best of us , he can finish it in just 10 sec .
why didn' t you go to switzerland ?
we can help you .
raymond knew a guy of germany railroad , please try it .
you knew some friends of bodensee so you can hide over there for some days and you can swim to the other bank so that' s switzerland .
i am sorry to bother so earlier is the father kremer here ?
yes .
henry , do you think i am a bad man , right ?
no
but a caitiff ?
somtimes people have no choice except recreance .
trust me , i knew it .
i have been always asking myself since you are back , why ...
you can bring me courage ?
but not anyone can do this .
you should be around of exarch .
you have responsibility of the whole church of luxemburg .
i have no power to criticize you .
cardinal is waiting for us .
i have family too .
somtimes i will consider them more than church .
me too .
father , glad to see you .
glad to see you too .
you look good , that' s great .
now , there are some problems of diplomatism .
come here , father , sit down .
sir , i am in a rough situation i must make a decision .
mersch has told me , i have nothing to suggest but as a father you must know in the soup , people should defer conscience .
so , please defer vocation of conscience , believe god ,
let holy belief help you .
please forgive me , but i have asked my conscience for million times
i asked for god , but i got nothing .
i come here with full of hope .
sir , i need your help .
you reject my suggestion ?
please try to understand me !
my brother of concentration camp was killed on the cross .
it' s true !
there is a cross on their back .
there is no god in that place where i came from .
i have never been off this house , since being occupied by germany .
i have never had conversation with the chief of staff of the occupied army .
yes , i made the jow of church loud all of luxemburg knew the reason .
the spirit of god spread everywhere .
maybe the spirit of god fill with ...
father ...
i don' t want to know what gebhardt ask you do .
you are imposed by him but if you have any doubt of church ...
i have never been suspicious of church but i suspect god sometimes .
do you know every thing happened in holland ?
nazi killed all christian of non aryan .
dejong , the local cardinal give up .
he published a cardinal announce all christian of non aryan in that area were killed more than 40000 people
what do you think what did papacy do ?
just one cardinal announce kill 40000 people .
how did it work for your demurral ?
200000 or 300000 sacrifice ?
but i should ...
should i become judas ?
is this gebhardt ask you do ?
yes .
there is something you don' t know .
i should not tell you there .
gebhardt made me get into a big puzzledom of conscience .
really ?
he used work in a concentration camp in east , he said that' s for democracy .
when i asked him what did he do , he answered , nothing , but i knew it .
no !
no !
stop .
i am so glad , everyone has the good rhythm today , right ?
if there is a litter flute that will be better .
gebhardt ...
you deal with it .
come on .
how about it ?
the people who believe god believe that jesus is righteous , so he has to do it , hasn' t he ?
it seems that you suspect god more than me , father .
here you are .
father , you are a smart guy .
you save your life and save your family' s too .
you also save all priests ' lives of luxemburg' s church .
i always ask during the period , why choose me , why not choose the chief of main deanery .
you yourself also say he is a smart guy .
but ... he lacks something .
he never comes into concentration camp .
how does he know the suffer in the concentration camp ?
behind the evil ?
what do you see in the east concentration camp ?
prisoner 25639 , henry kremer .
i come back .
get out .
henry kremer is name that really lived among other things .
several thousand priestess from every country like him were put in the concentration camp of dachau during world war il ... ... half of them died .
kremer belonged to them , that escaped the death .
