23 . 976
i' ve only ever met one man i wouldn' t want to fight when i met him he was already the best cut man in the business started training and managing in the 60' s , never lost his gift .
i need to look at him .
he' s fine , he' s fine .
even if you dont stop this bleeding i give you one more round .
seconds up , lets go .
wwhat do we do ? tell me what to do .
let him hit you . cuts too high , too close to the bone ,
maybe you got a severed vein , or you just cant get the cuagulant deep enough .
the' re all kinds of combinations you come up against down in the different layers of meat and frankie knew how to work every one .
people love violence , they' il slow down at a car wreck to check for bodies , same people claim to love boxing , they got no idea what it is .
boxing is about respect , getting it for yourself , and taking it away from the other guy .
i' il warm up the car .
mr dunn ?
i owe you money ?
no sir .
i know your momma ?
dont really know sir .
what is it you want ?
i was on the inner card , i won my fight too , maggie fitzgerald .
well maggie fitzgerald , what' s up ?
did you happen to see it ?
nope .
i did pretty good , thought you might be interested in training me .
i dont train girls .
maybe you should , people seen me fight say i' m pretty tough .
girlie , tough aint enough .
it' s a mistake .
car should be able to back up frankie .
just push will you ?
what did hogan want ?
offered us a title shot .
bout time .
i turned him down flat , 2 or 3 more fights and you' il be ready .
been 2 , 3 more fights for a long time now frankie .
look willie , you' ve one shot at the title , you lose , it may not come around again 2 or 3 more fights and you' il be ready .
if you say frankie .
frankie liked to say that boxing was an unnatural act , that everything in boxing is backwards .
sometimes best way to deliver punches is step back .
well do your best lord , protect katie ...
annie too , other than that , you know what i want , there' s no use repeating myself .
but step back too far , you aint fighting at home .
father that was a great sermon . every week .
what' s confusing you this week ?
oh same ol one god tree god thing .
frankie , most people figure out by kindergarden it' s about faith .
is it sorta like snap , crackle and pop all rolled up in one big box ?
your standing outside my church comparing god to rice crispies ?
the only reason you can romance at me is to wind me up , it' s not gonna happen this morning .
well i' m confused .
no you aren' t .
yes i am .
then here' s your answer , there' s one god , anything else cause i' m busy ?
what about the holy ghost ?
he' s an expression of god' s love . and jesus ?
son of god , dont play stupid .
but who is he then , does that make him demi god ?
there are no demigods you fucking pagan .
did you write your daughter ?
absolutely .
now your lying to a priest .
you know what , take a day off , dont come to mass tomorrow .
some people say the most important thing a fighter can have is heart .
frankie would say , show me a fighter who' s nothing but heart , and i' il show you a man waiting for a beating .
think i' ve only ever met one fighter who' s all heart .
my name is dangerous dillard fighting flipo bam bam ... out of broward county texas .
dangerous showed up a couple years back , it comes to everything to la with errilville , ... new boyfriend , apparently errilville got lost , and ended up back in texas .
danger looked for him , bout a week before he introduced himself .
hey , you know , i gots nothing against niggers .
well that' s nice to hear .
yeah , yeah lots of people where i comes from does , but my momma taught me not to cause hurt to no man , niggers or not .
you got a nice momma , anything there is i can do for ya ?
just one of those questions you ask .
but danger wanted to give it his best answer .
well sir i' d likes to become the welter weight champion of the world , and i challenge the motor city cobra , thomas evan earns to fight me for the welter weight championship of the whole world .
yo flip shut up man , you aint even ranked .
you gotta have at least one fight to be ranked .
hey i' il fight any man any time .
hey you a bad man huh ? hey come on get in the ring , go a round with me .
sherrile , leave him alone .
danger , your going back to training .
will do miss graff .
oww
those some nice tights , danger .
i give you that ass whoopping later olive oil .
hey bro , those pants look real pretty on you bro .
give his momma back her tights .
sherrile , had a left hook that would move a tank but he had a heart the size of a split pea .
frankie .... pit from bobby malone 17yrs ago .
bobby wanted to move to florida and frankie wanted some security .
bobby died while he was packing .
frankie found out .
most gyms lose money .
thought i told you i didn' t want danger working out here anymore .
oh he aint hurting nothing frankie .
but he' s hurting me , making my heart watching him punch the air like it' s gonna punch back .
how many times do i got to tell you that bleach is bleach .
why can' t you just buy the cheap stuff , you always have to buy the expensive stuff .
it smells better frankie .
bleach smells like bleach .
hey scruff ...
heya mr buda ..
big willie ,
nice fight .
thanks man .
wanna talk ?
what the hell kind of language is that ?
what do you want ?
i just thought you might like to know you got a fighter out there not talking to another manager .
not talking to another manager ?
and not just any manager , mickie mac
you came in here to tell me that big willie is not talking to mickie mac ?
not a word , neither one of them .
i' m trying to read here .
if you think that is more important .
who' s your new girl ?
what ?
jesus christ .
she keeps hitting it like that she gonna break her wrists .
your wasting your time , i told you i dont train girls .
thought you might change your mind .
there' s dozen of trainers who train girls , you wont have any trouble finding one .
won' t hardly need a dozen boss , you' il do fine .
dont ' call me boss now , i' m not your boss , and dont you be calling me that .
willie you ready to work ?
anytime .
if i stop calling you boss will you train me ?
no .
then i might as well just keep calling you it .
she came from southwestern missouri , the hills outside
set in the cedars and oak trees somewhere between nowhere and goodbye .
she grew up knowing one thing , she was trash .
it' s for my dog .
she' d come 1800 miles but the was still just over the hill .
working the bag boss .
i' m not your boss and that bag is working you .
give her money back .
you sure ?
how much' s she paid ?
6 months .
christ , no dont be a smart ass now will ya , woman thinks i' m gonna throw away 6 months worth of dues just to get rid of her she' s out of her mind , but just dont encourage her , understand ?
what' s danger doing out there ?
what' s he looking at ?
looks like a bottle of water .
he pay his dues ?
dues ? boy can' t afford pants , you want him to pay dues ?
get out of my office .
can' t think it was the bag .
i' m not a trainer but i can show you this too .
i appreciate any help i can get .
what you wanna do is take it to the mat see , he' s constantly moving, moving towards you , moving around ya, and moving away from ya .
alright , now you dont want to hit him when he' s coming toward ya cause what he' s gonna do is just push you back and is gonna smuggle your punches take you by , so you watch him real carefully , keep rotating , that keeps your head moving and keep one shoulder back so you' re always ready to fire power shot , alright now go ahead now, good good , keep rotating, keep moving , that' s it , good good , keep that chin tucked in , come around keep moving , keep moving , good ... yeah ?
give it a few shots , tuck that chin in, tuck that chin in , that' s good , that' s good now you get this down we' il put you on a speed bag ?
you do have a speed bag ?
i' il just borrow it til i can buy my own .
go on home now .
i' il walk out with you ?
no i am home , see .
it' s nice , would it bother you much if i worked a little longer ?
just pull the door closed when you leave .
thank you .
if there' s magic in boxing , its the magic of fighting battles beyond endurance , beyond cracked rips , ruptured kidneys and detached raetna' s .
it' s the magic of risking everything for a dream that nobody see' s but you .
hey flip , hey flippie come here man , i think i found somebody you can beat .
i dont fights women .
why not boot , it' s perfect boot , cause you know why , cause she are you , you could fight to him and then you could kiss to him , and then you fight to him one more time .
it' s beautiful man , it' s like poetry .
it' s like poetry .
you' ve been reading that shit .
thanks boss .
that' s a girl man ?
i' il be damned flipper .
think your right .
look at them itty bitty titties , there like mosquito bites , man there' s barely even a mouth full .
saw your last flash shot will , spend so much time face down , i thought the canvas had titties .
canvas has titties .
hey look at me i' m sherille .
just humping the canvas , humping the floor .
c' mon bro , the floor having titties that' s funny bro .
shut up , what you laughing at ?
hold the bag stupid .
yo when they start making those tights for men flippie ?
alright that' s enough , that' s enough for today .
i' il give you a ride .
oh i can' t frankie , middle' s got a piano lesson , i told grace i' d drive .
oh , something wrong with grace' s car ?
she hates that car , wants the old one back but dealer wont do it , says he already got a buyer .
oh well maybe i should talk to the dealer ?
i' d appreciate that .
ok .
thanks .
today doesn' t want one .
you ever do any work around here ?
not my job i' d worry about if i was you .
little girl tends to be coming along .
yeah , almost like someones been helping her .
she might just be a natural .
looks like she' s got something .
she' s got my speed bag , that' s what she' s got .
i wonder how the hell she got that .
i wonder .
i' m gonna need that speed bag back .
this bag ?
yes that bag , that' s my bag and if your hitting it people will think i' m training ya .
is that such a bad thing boss ?
yes , yes it is everytime you touch it your losing me business out here .
i got it embarassing myself .
well i can' t just lend it to anybody you know .
i understand .
look you seem like a nice girl , can i give you some advice ?
i' d appreciate that .
your gonna find a trainer either in this gym or somewhere else that' s gonna wanna train a girl , it' s the latest freak show out there , but the only trouble is your gonna be they' re wasting your time because your too old .
i dont feel that old .
well neither do i but you don' t see me fighting 21 yr olds do ya , it takes about 4 years to train a fighter .
how old are you ?
31 , until my next birthday .
well there you go .
31 .
you wouldn' t start traing to be a ballerina at 31 now would ya ?
already been working it for 3years .
and you can' t hit a speed bag ?
what kind of training is that ?
never had any boss .
well i hate to say it but it shows .
somebody' s gotta be honest with ya .
i hate to be the one to tell you the truth .
ya , well sorry for using your bag mr dunn .
your not gonna cry now are ya ?
no sir .
ya , here , keep the god damn thing .
no you need it .
no take the bag , haven' t seen it in 20yrs anyway .
i' ve had 3 since then , just uh , just enjoy it will ya ?
i' il just borrow it till i buy my own .
just dont lose it .
i know hogan , your guy' s the champ so we dont split 50' s but if i dont see 40 % ,
look you call me back with 60/ 40 or dont call me back at all .
hey willie .
hey frankie .
is something wrong ?
i' m sorry to come on your house like this ,
i know you dont like people dropping in .
oh your not people willie , your welcome anytime come on in .
i wanted to thank you for getting grace' s car back .
oh you dont have to thank me .
paying an extra 1000 dollars for your own car is a favor .
gracey broke down crying when she saw it .
really ?
i also needed to talk with you about business .
oh yeah well i just got off the phone with hogan , we' re all set for september , everything but the splinter .
i gotta leave you frankie .
what ?
willie the title is just 2 fights away .
it aint that , it' s like you said , i got one shot , if i win i got to make as much i can while i can .
i need somebody in the action that can make things happen , and i got to make a change before the fight .
only way this guy said he' d take me is if he took me to the title .
so i get to the title fight , and this guy takes you there .
only way he' d do it , i' m sorry frankie , i' m no longer waiting on a title , i wish you could have been with me .
mickie mac' s a business man , he can' t teach ya nothing .
you already taught me everything i need to know .
there' s some things people just dont wanna hear .
and i challenge the motor city cobra ,
thomas hitman earns to fight me for the welter weight championship of the whole world .
danger , i' m wearing these mits for a reason .
just working on my foot work mr .
danger you through a punch you get the hell out of this gym .
danger , i want you thinking bout that punch i' il brb .
i' m , i' m thinking how i' m gonna hit it hard for ya mr .
no one had the heart to tell danger earns retired years ago .
heard about willie , it' s cold , it' s dead cold , plus it wouldn' t be so bad if you weren' t so damn old .
yeah well at least i can see through both eyes .
mmmhmm didn' t do you a lot good tho did it ?
well i got the gym , dont need to be training fighters at my age .
willie tell you why ?
cause mickie , mickie' s got the connections .
it aint about connections frankie , it' s about you not believing in him .
well i found him , i stuck with him for 8 years how' s that for not believing in him .
you could have gotten him a title fight 2 years ago , now he knew that i' m amazed he stayed around this long .
yeah well getting there and taking home the belt are 2 different things .
what was i supposed to do , just put him in over his head , not protect him ?
oh you were protecting him from the championship ?
yea .
well now that makes sense .
well what about you scrap , what did your manager do ?
you were a hell of a fighter , a lot better than willie , he get you a title fight or .. did he just bust you out banging your head against other people' s fist until you lost your eye ?
i had my shot , i went out swinging and no man can say i didnt .
ya well i remember , and excuse me ,
if i didn' t want my fighter spending the 2nd half of his life cleanin up other people' s spit .
ya right , like your the smart one , your the one learning greek .
it' s galac .
well you just protected yourself out of a championship fight , how do you say that in galac .
boxing is an unnatural act , cause everything in it is backwards ,
you wanna move to the left , you dont step left , you push on the right toe , to move right you use your left toe , instead of running from the pain like a sane person would do , you step into it .
everything in boxing is backwards .
cheeseburger ?
you bought me a cheeseburger ?
ya .
i never see you buy anybody a cheeseburger .
well i couldn' t eat it , and i ordered it .
you want it ?
well i guess i plan go back to spending .
did you watch the fight ?
yeah i watched it .
willie did good .
that' s what you got to say ?
willie won didn' t he ?
he did good .
so you been working on yourself , learning to open up that' s good work .
you watch it ?
yeah i got hbo .
how could you afford hbo ?
how long have i been telling you to save your money ?
ever since i fought louis typhoon johnson at the stadium club in tupulo mississippi .
that ?
yeah manager ran off , left you and me to hitch home , don' t you remember nothing ?
well i remember walking half way and thinking i was gonna be lynched .
i remember you leaving me with my dick in my hand behind that gas station .
yeah well i got a ride , the guy took off before i hardly closed the door , had to walk back 2 miles .
your conscience got the better of you that' s why .
what the hells that ?
it' s her birthday .
your not breathing right , that' s why your pantering .
so it' s your birthday huh , how olds that make ya ?
i' m 32 mr dunn , and i' m here celebrating the fact that i spend another year scraping dishes and waitressing which is what i' ve been doing since 13 , and according to you i' il be 37 before i can even throw a decent punch which i have to work on this speed bag for a month god' s simple truth . other truth is , my brother' s in prison , my sister cheats on welfare by pretending one of her babies is still alive , my daddies dead , and my momma weighs 312lbs .
if i was thinking straight i' d go back home , find a used trailer , buy a deep fryer and some oreos , problem is this the only thing i ever felt good doing .
if i' m too old for this then i got nothing . that enough truth to see to you ?
this your speed bag ?
if yours behind the counter , wish i could say wheres it at
hold it , hold it , i' il show you a few things , and then we' il get you a trainer .
no sorry .
your in a position to be negotiate ?
yes sir , because i know if you train me right i' m gonna be a champ , i' ve seen you looking at me .
yeah out of pitty .
dont ' you say that , dont you say that if it aint true .
i want a trainer , i dont want charity , and i dont want favors ,
if your not interested than i got more celebrating to do .
stop stop stop , god damnit stop .
what the hell are you doing ?
ok , if i' m gonna take you on ...
you wont never regret it .
look just listen to me ...
if i take you on ...
i' il promise i' il work so hard .
god this is a mistake already . mmm mmm i' m listening boss .
if i take you on , you dont say anything , you dont question me , dont ask why , you dont say nigger something maybe yes frankie and i' m gonna try to forget the fact that your a girl .
it' s all i ask .
and dont come crying to me if you get hurt . alrighty .
we got a deal .
no not quite ,
i' m gonna teach ya how to fight then we get you a manager and i' m off down the road .
well i hate to argue ..
dont argue with me that' s the only way we' re doing it i teach you all you need to know and then you go off you make a million dollars ,
i dont care , get your teeth knocked out , i dont care ,
i dont wanna hear about it either way , that' s just the way its gonna be , its the only way i' il do it .
all right ,
now one of the things i' ve noticed around the gym is you never move your feet .
you stand there just flat footed .
you gotta move your feet , that' s one of the best things i' m gonna be able to teach ya . so here' s what you do ,
you get yourself , bend your knees , get in an athletic position ,
look like your gonna hit something .
move em how boss ?
just go hit the bag .
stop .
what i do wrong ?
ok you did two things wrong .
1 is you asked a question and 2 is you asked another question .
now what i want you to do is not about hitting it hard , is how good you hit it . so watch me , and you can count with me if you want , just count on a one count .
can you show me that again ?
just say one please .
one .
ok one .
one . ok yeah just say one , thats good that' s good , then i move over to my right foot , you see my weight is shifting to my right foot then i hit it with the back of my hands , thin ice , thin ice pick then i come over and i shift to my left foot , and i hit it with my right hand , ice picking it again ....
just do it like that , keep practicing .
you show em how to stand , keep their legs under their shoulders .
to make a fighter , you gotta strip em down to bare wood .
you can' t just tell em to forget everything you know , you gotta make them forget it in their bones .
make em so tired they only listen to you , only hear your voice , only do what you say and nothing else .
show em how to keep their balance and take it away from the other guy .
how to generate momentum off your right toe and how to flex your knees when fire a jab .
how to fight backin up so the other guy doesn' t wanna come after ya , then you gotta show em all over again , over and over and over til they think they were born that way .
think i' m ready for a fight boss ?
hey , come here .
your not breathing .
hate to disagree with you .
everytime you get into pressure your holding your breath , now stop doing that .
ok , but other than that i' m doing pretty good right ?
i mean for a girl .
i dont train girls .
think i might be ready for a fight boss ?
you get a manager and we' il find out wont we .
i' d like to but you been keeping me too busy .
you got any family boss ?
what ?
you spending all this time with me i didn' t know if you had any ?
no , well i got a daughter , katie .
that' s family .
we' re not exactly close .
how much she weigh ?
what ?
trouble in my family comes by the pound .
yeah , not very big , used to be real athletic , dont know if she kept it up .
so what do you think , im ready for a fight ?
hey sally , come here for a minute will ya ?
frankie i need to see you in the back for a minute ok ? can i see you a minute ?
sally here is a real good manager , has a couple of golden glove boys ,
looking for a girl sally ?
well looking for a good one .
see there you go .
nice working with you girlie .
what you want ?
nothing .
my my , i' ve been watching you work , you got a hell of a left .
thank you .
so you wanna give this a try see if it' s a fit ?
yeah sure .
good , cause i think your ready for a fight .
what am i doing wrong sally ? everytime im gettin on me .
your doing great , your wearing her down , just keep punching .
i aint doing great , i' m losing .
your wearing her down .
nice night aint it ?
jesus christ .
that' s washington' s girl , hell of a fighter , 11 0 .
your lefts , keep your left up .
has a lot of good fighters , gots julia lightweight champ .
your left damnit .
wouldn' t have been my choice for a first fight but sally' s a good manager , must think she can take her .
jesus age , your left , keep your left up .
you thinks she can hear you from back here ?
course if maggie loses , wouldn' t mean a thing to sally , might even help him on his card gets another win ,
lonnie might let sally lightweight fight julia for the title .
sally' s trying to set a fight with julia ?
hey what do i know , i just come cause i enjoy the fights .
my god .
hey come here , come here , your dropping your left hand , quit dropping your left hand .
hey frankie do you mind not talking to my fighter ?
your doing a hell of a job of it sally , is this the way you advise your lightweight ?
dunn , what the hell are you doing ?
i' m talking , what you doing ?
is this your fighter ?
it' s my fighter .
it aint fitting real well sally .
fine , you take her , she can' t fight worth a shit anyway .
somebody tell me what' s going on .
look i was late , sally was just subbin for me .
you telilng me that this is your fighter ?
yeah this is my fighter .
then you got 10 seconds .
ok , and then i throw a punch and it keeps dropping .
let it drop .
that' d be a lot easier .
she thinks she knows you that' s all , everytime you drop it she comes right over the top , so you just wait for her you see , that' s all she' s thinkin about , and when she cocks that big right hand do ya hear me ?
i hear ya boss .
when she does you step to the side , come over wit a goodnight hook .
you got one ?
got it right here .
fighter i' m calling it .
ok , go give it to her .
the body knows what fighters dont , how to protect itself .
a neck can only twist so far , twist it just a hair more and the body says hey i' il take it from here , cuz obviously you dont know what your doing .
neutral corner .
see the way she did that ?
sugar ray would do that . girls got sugar .
lie down now , rest and we' il talk about this when you regain your senses .
it' s called a knock out mechanism .
dont ' get carried away now .
you uh , you forgot the rule , now what is the rule ?
keep my left up ?
is to protect yourself at all times .
now what is the rule ?
protect myself at all times .
good good .
you gave me away how is that protecting me ?
it wasn' t .
it' s ok , i' il work on my left boss .
drink your water .
other than that how' d i do ?
fine , you did fine .
you gonna leave me again ?
never , that place you worked today , have homemade lemon moran pie ?
sure .
not the kind with the canned filling crap .
big can , yaaa size , says homemade on the label .
i want you to take the weekend off .
it' s only thursday .
you gonna argue with me ?
know better than do that boss . well ... good .
all fighters are pig headed someway or another , some part of them always thinks they know better than you about something . can you uh spare a few minutes for the immaculate conception ?
truth is , even if they' re wrong , even if that one thing is gonna be the ruin of them , if you can beat that last bet out of them , then they aint fighters at all .
thought i said see you monday ?
you sure did boss .
was last night .
you said not to argue with ya .
damn woman wont do a thing i tell her .
want my advice ?
what ?
where are your shoes ?
there in a feet .
you got big holes in your socks .
there only not that big .
didn' t i give you money for some new ones ?
these are my sleeping socks , my feet like a little air at night .
how come you are wearing them in the day time then ?
cause my daytime socks got too many holes in them .
well if i give you some more money buy some new socks , please ?
well i' d be tempted but , i couldn' t say for sure , might find it' s way to the track .
didn' t take maggie long to hit a strive .
i' ve got the breathing thing down .
nah you aint breathing right , cuz your knocking them down in the first round , that' s what .
i thought that was the point .
the point is to get good , you can' t get good if you keep knockin em out in the first round , how am i gonna get you fights ?
nobody wants to see their fighter embarrased .
why am i still doing 4 rounders box ?
cause you haven' t got the lungs for 6 rounds , that' s why .
i do if i keep knocking em out the first round .
frankie made her fight one more 4 rounder , just to let her know who was boss .
sorry boss .
maggie left no doubt about it .
the first 6 rounder didn' t go quite as smooth .
maggie didn' t knock her out til the end of the first round , after that no manager wanted to put his fighter in with maggie .
frankie had to go into his pocket to get a decent fights . sweeting the purse by paying managers on the side .
that only worked for so long , then frankie did something he hated doing , he took a chance .
he moved her up in class , that could have been a mistake .
damn , damn , damn , 2 seconds will ya , just 2 seconds .
your nose is broke .
dang , fix it .
i can' t , i can' t .
you can fix it .
i can' t , i' ve gotta call it .
i' ve seen what you can do , fix it .
look i can snap it back into place but i can' t stop the bleeding , the ring doctor' s gonna call it .
please frankie please stop the blood i can beat her .
by doing this .
inhale , inhale , breath in .
ok huh ?
yeah it' s okay .
alright you got 20 seconds before this turns into a geiser and it' s gonna spray all over the front row .
20 seconds that' s all you got , now get going .
what ya reading ?
what she saying ?
wants to know what your reading .
its yates , keep your head back .
why won' t ya talk a little yates to her , show her what a treat that is .
when the hell they gonna get to her ?
i' m ok frankie .
what you learn tonight ?
always protect myself .
whats the rule ?
always protect myself .
margret fitgerald ?
here .
i' il be right here .
how you doing ?
me ?
yeah you .
i' m not the one who' s hurt .
broken noise dont hurt that much .
why you telling me that ?
no reason .
but some wounds are too deep or too close to the bone , and no matter how hard you work at it , you just can' t stop the bleeding .
did you write your daughter ?
every week .
i' ve no idea why you come to church .
after a 12 straight knock out , frankie got a couple of real good offers , the first was to fight billy the blue bare osterman for the wba welter weight title .
billy was a former prostitue out of east berlin , had a reputation for being the dirtiest fighter in the ranks .
didn' t seem to matter to her that something like that could kill a person and the crowds loved her .
he turned her down without even telling her .
the next was to fight , the british champ , the jamaican girl billy just beat .
hello ?
not interested .
he turned that down too .
that' s a lot of money boss .
your making money what are you still working here for ?
it' s a title match right ?
are you british ?
it' s a title you can' t take away , she' s got nothing to lose , you got nothing to win .
might still be a good fight .
i just brought you up to welter weight , too good to fight these contenders , you' d rather fight some bullshit champ .
didn' t notice i was fighting any contenders .
well you can get yourself another manager anytime you want .
frankly i' d learn to protect your face a lil better wouldn' t have to turn down this money .
my face out there so much , it' s a miracle i haven' t been knocked out yet boss .
you can' t work here anymore tonight , i made us a reservation , you uh , might wanna shower .
here you go , here you go .
what' s this ?
well it aint no big secret for .
go ahead and blow em .
thank you .
33 aint so old , i was still fighting the 39 , fought for 23 years .
how' s it going scrap ?
doing good nicky , doing good . what' il ya have ?
coffee .
you do not speaketh ?
don' t hardly know him .
when i met frankie , right after my 37th birthday he was picking up cut work , he used to patch me up when i thought it was impossible , good man to have in the corner .
yes he is .
he stayed with me through my last fight in san bernadino too .
my manager was off getting drunk somewhere ,
it' s just frankie and me .
i was taking a hilacious beating .
everybody gots a particular number of fights in em ,
nobody tells you what that number is .
mine was 109 , i just didn' t want to admit it .
both rounds cut opens up , blood starts pouring into my eye , they should have stopped the fight , but hell i was black man in san bernadino , blood was what i was there for , round after round , i kept getting frankie to patch me up , he' s talking bout throwing in the towel , but he aint my manager he can' t throw in nothing , round after round he' s arguing with me , i' m almost laughing cause more to him than to me .
i go 15 rounds lose by decision , next morning i lose the eye .
in 23years he' s never said a thing about it .
doesn' t have to , i see it in his face everytime he looks at me , somehow frankie thinks he should have stopped that fight , should have saved my eye , it' s been his life wishing he could take back the 109th fight , i wanted to go to 110 , thing is , if you want to get to the title , maybe he' s not the one to take you there .
you tells mack i' d be here tonight ?
you go on and eat your cupcake .
it' s the rule , always protect yourself ,
people never take their own advice , if she was gonna leave frankie , better she did it to him then .
mr micky mack , i' m maggie fitzgerald , i hear your a real good manager doing good things for big willie , but i' d thought you should know i aint never leaving mr dunn , so you dont need to make anymore excuses to bump into me , sorry for interrupting your dinner .
maggie always did like taking em out in the first round .
the letters always came back marked the same way , " return to sender " .
oh i' il make ya some coffee .
what are you doing with your money ?
saving it .
good girl .
you know you save enough of it you get yourself a new house , cash no mortgage .
it' il be a while before i can do that .
yeah well it might be a stretch but , you got to get yourself a place of your own .
go around wasting it on things that don' t matter and what you got ?
understand ?
wait long enough , you got nothing .
ok , as soon as i get the money .
i' ve made a lot of mistakes in my life , i' m just trying to keep you from doing the same .
i know boss .
i' m not gonna live forever .
what is it ?
it' s a tape on that girl in england your gonna fight .
if your gonna go for the title we got some moves ...
hey get the hell down , know how old i am ?
thank you boss , thank you so much .
here just let me put this in the machine .
what machine ?
you dont have a tv huh ?
no .
alright , ok .
