to have and to hold .
for when they walk .
we may , question ourselves at , moments such as these , did we make the right decision to settle here ?
we are grateful for the time we have been given
what manner of spectacle has attracted your attention so splendidly ,
i had to carry it in my pocket to help me teach ?
who came upon this ?
claude , did you know this ?
no mr. walker !
i inspected it carefully
it had a twisted back and much was burn wounds .
i see ...
it was murdered !
but who was the culprit ?
who has done this hiddeous act ?
those we don' t speak off killed her .
there it is ...
why would such a notion , come into your mind ?
they are meat eaters .
with large claws
children , those we don' t speak off , have not breached our borders for many years .
we do not go into their woods , they do not come into our village .
it is a truce .
we do not threaten them
why would they do this ?
we thought not to , overlook the flight of the birds .
we didn' t have last year , and i for one missed it desperately
and i know your wife , missed the children dressed in feathers , and such .
i am fond of it .
i do not have a say in this matter .
august nicholson is chair , of today s meeting .
there is a young man who has requested a word with the elders .
well , do have him come forward .
hello , lucius .
my mother is unaware of the reason , for my visit today .
she did not give her consent , or consult me in any form .
the passing of little daniel nicholson , from illness , handed a very offensive weight on my thoughts .
i ask permission , to cross into the forbidden woods ,
and travel to the nearest town .
i will gather new medicines . and i will return .
with regards to those we don' t speak off .
i am certain they will let me pass .
creatures can , sense emotion and fear .
they will see i am pure of intention , and not afraid .
the end .
what goes on in that head of yours ?
say something , lucius !
if they had cornered us in the tower , then i promise to stay with them .
do you ever think of the towns , have you ?
the towns ?
what for ?
a wicked place is where wicked people live .
that' s all .
thank you lucius .
you' re a good friend
i do hope no one saw you !
what we seem to have amongst us is , a predator of some type .
most likely a coyote , or a wolf .
it' s manner of killing , and removing the fur , but ,
leaving the flesh torn , may be a sign that this animal , suffers from madness .
and for the next fortnight , we should be vigilant , for sightings of this coyote .
keep careful watch , over our little ones , as they play on the hills .
as for the other notion .
we do not believe , our boundary has been breached .
those we don' t speak off , are much larger creatures than coyotes .
we would know if they had been here .
as frightful , it' s good news there' s a coyote , is it not papa ?
do not feel worried , kitty .
you' re not troubled ?
i' m certain it will all end soon .
can we think of other matters then ?
it would be a relieve .
i' m in love .
i' d like your permission to marry papa !
there' s a proper manner , the way things are supposed to happen .
such as the boy would now all be standing next to you ,
and while i' m on such as this , where is the boy in all this .
i haven' t spoken to him as of yet .
the young man is unaware of your intentions
he has a quiet way .
i was going to talk with him papa , but not without your blessing .
i won' t talk with him without your blessing !
it' s lucius hunt .
lucius ?
you think badly of him ?
no .
i haven' t been thinking on him this way
the other boys , papa , he doesn' t joke , or bounce about .
no he certainly does not .
so i have your blessings then ?
look , do me one favour , do not tell anyone else about your burstings , until you have spoken with the young man !
good afternoon , lucius .
i wanted , to tell you something .
i love you , lucius .
i love you !
like the day is long !
i love you more than the sun and the moon together , and if you feel the same way , then we should not hide it any longer .
it' s a gift , loving !
we should be thankful !
we should belt it out , with all the bless in our love .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you .
baby sleep .
gently sleep .
life is long and love is deep .
time will be .
sweet for thee .
all the world to see .
time to look about and know .
though the shadows come and weep .
how the breeze stirs the trees .
how blossoms blow .
i often wondered if you and my son bonded because neither of you is fond of speaking .
you are very kind .
you must pardon my manners , i haven' t slept in many nights .
you know you' re doing great , jameson
just a few more moments !
gather your bravery !
do not jostle about so , you' re ruining my shirt !
it made a sound i can hear a sound !
maybe i can leave before they attack !
have courage man !
it is a wilds tale , it isn' t true !
do not bend it , just use yourself !
even a dog can smell you .
pardon me , mr. nelson ?
you may run from sorrow as we have , sorrow will find you !
it could smell you !
i didn' t know you could run here do fast !
we are still from running this thing , right ?
noah has to be punished , he wept little justin with a stick again !
noah percy !
stop this fussing right this moment !
you' re in trouble , usual !
i don' t hit any !
they are going to place you in the quiet room !
i want to talk to the elderly' s
why don' t we strike a deal ?
yeah , got one idea ?
it would be prudent to keep our deal a secret !
can you do that ?
i could cherish mouth !
you needn' t go to the quiet room , if you take an oath , to never strike any person again !
no hitting !
no hitting !
no hitting !
it' s your struck !
we had now return right away .
hm , what shall we do with our stolen time ?
shall we have a quick race ?
yes !
up the hill to the resting rock !
no cheating !
what a deeply , scandalous thing to say !
i insist you take that back !
is that the school bell ?
you cheater !
i know , i' m sorry !
my sister cried a lot .
do you wonder how i recognized you ?
some people , there is a handful mind , you give of the tiniest colour
it' s faint ,
like a haze ,
it is the only thing i ever see in the darkness .
papa has it too .
do you wanna know what your colour is ?
well i don' t want to tell you , it' s not like you have to speak of such things , you shouldn' t have even ask .
you run like a boy .
thank you .
i know why you denied my sister , when i was younger , you used to hold my world when i walked ,
and suddenly you stopped .
one day i even tripped , in your presence , and nearly fell .
i was faking of course , but still you did not hold me .
sometimes we don' t do things we want to do , so that others won' t know we want to do that .
what is it ?
berries what a splendid present !
be cautious , you' re holding the bad colour !
this colour attracts those we don' t speak of , we must burry it .
you had not to pick that colour berry anymore !
you better dis room his pocket !
what' s wrong ?
your breathing has changed !
i have never set eyes on these before
you do not pick that now !
where did you find this ?
today at resting rock ,
noah percy handed ivy walker , berries of the bad colour .
i' ve asked where did he found those berries , for they were not like any others i have seen
he pointed to jar in our resting rock .
it is my believe that noah percy has entered the woods ,
and has done so on many occasions .
it is also my believe , that because of his innocence , those creatures who reside in the woods , did not harm him .
this strength is my feeling , that they will let me pass , if they sense i' m not a threat .
we shall speak of the town , just this once ,
and we shall never speak of it again .
your father had left for the market on a tuesday , at 9 : 15 in the morning .
he was found robbed , and naked , in the filthy river , two days later .
why do you tell me this story ?
so you will know the nature of what you desire .
i do not desire that !
my intentions are true to my word ,
i think of nothing but the people of this village .
forgive me ,
i' m but scared for my only son' s life .
i' m not the one with secrets .
what is your meaning ?
there are secrets in every corner of this village ,
you don' t feel it , you don' t see it .
that is form my own well being
so the evil things from my past , are kept close enough forgotten
forgetting would be to let them be born again , in another form .
my mind is still finished .
no !
perhaps we should speak with edward walker together , he may be
he has too
he hides his feelings for you .
some times we don' t do things yet others know we want to do things , so , we don' t do them .
what nonsense are you saying ?
you needn' t worry , nothing will happen to me .
you remind me of a cult , sometimes .
what makes you think he has feelings for me ?
he never touches you .
there is no escape .
o , hello .
i was just playing a game with noah .
the rascal has gotten to hide in my house again .
houses are against the rules !
he knows that !
are you alright ?
we are attending to the children tonight .
kitty and i.
i should be with her .
be well !
i heard my parents speaking of you .
i know of your request to the town .
i think it is noble , but i do not think it is right .
are you not angry you have no sight ?
i see the world in a sheer light . just not as you see it .
what of noah then ?
what if there were medicines for noah , that could help him be still and tolerant .
really , stop speaking of this , it' s putting knobs in my stomach .
kitty , is to be married .
she' s found love .
again .
with christoph crane .
you know he won' t sit back in his chair , for fear of setting wrinkles on his shirts ,
but , he does have a gentleman ring way about him .
and he does care for my sister .
can you believe ?
i think kitty is blessed then ,
i am blessed as well .
my older sister is now spoken for ,
i' m now free to receive interest from anyone ,
you might have interest ?
have you seen noah ?
lucius ?
lucius .
hurry to the church .
close the door !
noah , come on inside !
everyone inside !
just close the door !
lucius is outside walking !
they are coming !
he is inside safe somewhere .
please close the door !
he' il come back to make sure we' re safe .
ivy , ivy , please ?
no !
don' t let them in !
by the markings we find this morning , on our homes .
i feel they were warning us , they acted as if , threatened .
creatures have never attacked us without reason .
does anyone here , know of a reason ?
why these events may have occurred ?
who has written this note ?
please read so that all may hear ,
i have brought this burden upon us ,
on the day before last , i crossed the forbidden line into covington woods .
and was witnessed there by those we don' t speak of .
i' m deeply sorry ,
i have shamed myself and my family ,
i pray that my actions , will cause no further pain .
deepest sorrow , lucius hunt .
do not threat .
you are a fear to us , in a way that i shall never know .
we are grateful ,
for the time we have endured .
i had an elder sister !
ms. clark , you have been keeping secrets !
kitty reminds me of her so .
what manner of a person was she !
so i see .
and we fought endlessly .
may i ask her name ?
why did she not come to covington woods ?
my sister did not live passed her 23rd birthday .
a group of men took her life , on the way by our home .
please , rise .
she is not gonna squeeze my shirt like that , is she ?
many blessings on this most joyous day .
it was a beautiful ceremony , was it not ?
glorious .
i saw your hand move to your eyes , and remove the mud itch .
it must have been dust of some matter
father !
mr. walker , mr. walker !
they' re in the village .
they left more warnings .
they wish us to leave .
that cannot be .
one saw us , it ran of into the darkness .
you are certain ?
you boys stay close to ivy here , she' il tell you some funny stories and have you laughing some more .
we will go together .
the livestock has been taken , and skinned .
the hides and feathers are missing .
there are marks on the door , where it was opened .
the marks are lies , coyotes cannot reach that height .
the elders are going to have an inquiry tomorrow .
each member of the village is to be questioned about you .
to see how the border was breached .
yes .
it is cold outside .
you ought to go in .
why are you on this porch ?
is it not safe ?
there are other porches .
do you find me too much of a town boy ?
i do want to do boy things .
like that game the boys play when they stamp .
they put their backs to the woods , and see how long they can wait , before getting scared .
so exiting .
i understand you hold the record .
it will never be broken , they say .
it' s just children s games .
how is it you' re brave and all the rest of us shake in our boots ?
i don' t know more about that , only i used to be doing it .
how did you know i was here ?
i saw you in the window ,
no , i won' t tell you your colour .
stop asking .
when you' re married , will you dance with me ?
i find dancing very agreeable .
why can you not say what is in your head ?
why can you not stop saying what is in yours ?
why must you lead , when i want to lead ?
if i want to dance ,
i will ask you to dance .
if i want to speak ,
i will open my mouth to speak .
i don' t think they will ever blame me , to speak frank .
why ?
what ...
good is it to tell you , what i thought about for a week ,
what good would it do , for you to know that ,
i don' t think clearly , or do my work properly ?
what aim can rise in my telling you , the only time i' m guilty or selfish too ,
is when i think of you in harm .
and that is why i am on this porch ,
ivy walker .
i fear for your safety , before all others .
and yes ,
i will dance with you on our wedding night ,
i have been to the storage hut twice , to fetch food prior to the wedding ceremony .
and the livestock was untouched at that time ?
yes mrs. hunt , all is as it should be .
thank you , beatrice .
i beg your pardon , is it true , about lucius and ivy ?
there are whispers all over the village .
we were informed earlier this morning of their intentions .
it is amazing to witness that two people in love would unit .
it follows no rules .
kitty ,
i wanted to speak with you first ,
i do not want you to feel pain , in any fashion .
you are my cherished one .
if you were to feel badly about lucius ,
i would not have it .
one love to sacrifice another love , is not right .
there is nothing you could do , that would sacrifice my love for you .
all my cherished one is well .
god bless you on your life together .
what is happening ?
is this about ivy and myself ?
i know you are very fond of her .
i know she is fond of you .
there are different types of love .
noah ?
you' il be late for the meeting hall .
would you like your father to walk you there ?
noah ?
bad colour !
i beg your pardon .
what is it ?
there has been an accident .
noah percy ...
was found with quarts of blood , on his clothes and hands .
but it was not his own , and he will not speak into who' s it is .
and to go to the towns , to retrieve medicines !
that may safe him ,
lucius hunt .
you are my father ,
i listen to you in all things .
i' il trust your decision .
i' ve done what i can to close the wounds , but here is an infection ,
what can be done to mend him ?
we could only pray !
if there were no limitations what could be done ?
what are you asking , man ?
is there anything at all , that can be done to mend the boy ?
please , victor , would you be so kind as to answer my question ?
if the infection is contained , he may still survive .
i must speak out .
you have a restless spirit ,
i know the thing that is in your head
you' re thinking , of going to the town .
tell me i' m wrong .
you have made an oath ,
edward , us all have never to go back .
it is a painful bargain , but , no good can come without sacrifice , these are your words i' m saying . you cannot break the oath , it is sacred .
it is a crime , what has happened to lucius .
you have taken the oath .
you and the rest of the elders .
are you listening to me ?
you , have taken the oath .
the moment i heard , my daughter s vision had finally failed her , and that she would forever be blind ,
i was sitting in that very chair .
i was so ashamed ,
what do you know about your grandfather ?
he who was the wealthiest man in the towns ?
that he was , he had a gift for that .
if he was given 1 dollar , and in a fortnight he would have turned into 5
you do not know what money is , it is not part of our life here .
money , can be a wicked thing , it can turn men' s hearts black , good men' s hearts .
my father could not see this .
for all his gifts , he was a poor judge .
that means character .
your grandfather was a good man ivy , he had a laugh , he could be heard three houses away .
he used to hold my hand as i , hold yours .
he taught me strength and showed me love , and told me to ,
lead , when others would only follow .
your grandfather james walker died in his sleep , a man put a gun to his head and shot him while he dreamed .
i tell you this , so you will understand some of the reasons for my actions .
and the actions of others .
you are a strong one ivy .
you lead , when others will follow .
you see light , when there is only darkness .
i trust you .
i trust you , among all others .
thank you .
ivy , do you know where you are ?
at the old shed that is not to be used .
ivy .
yes , father .
do your very best not to scream .
what ?
i' m leaving , to fetch your medicines .
i had a difficult time , having a way .
where is edna ?
ivy , has asked , to go to the towns , for medicines ,
christoph , you needn' t be scared .
we have the magic rocks .
they will keep us safe .
why have we not heard of these rocks before ?
christoph , please , do not leave us .
there is nothing to fear ,
then why do you have the cloak of the safe colour ?
we will light torches .
it will be safe .
it is forbidden .
christoph !
ivy , there is something in these woods , turns my stomach to rot .
you will be safe .
they will not harm you .
for you cannot see , they will take pity on you .
the way they took pity on noah , when he ventured in the woods .
they will kill me .
ivy ,
i cannot stay .
you are better in these woods , than most boys .
are you not to say so .
it is my burden , finton .
you may go .
come home with me ?
do your very best not to scream !
there is an odd smell .
it is ahead of you .
what is it ?
i cannot explain in words .
it is just a few steps .
those we don' t speak of .
don' t be frightened .
it is only farce .
do not be frightened .
there did exist rumours of , creatures in these woods .
it is in one of the history books i used to teach in the towns .
the screams from the woods .
we created those sounds .
the ceremony of meat .
we remove it ourselves , with elders always aside .
the truth ?
they are farce too ?
we didn' t want anyone to go to the towns , ivy .
what about the animals ?
the skins of those , are the elders responsible for that too ?
i believe one of the elders is responsible , it will not happen again .
there is no one in this village who has not lost someone irreplaceable , who has not felt lost , so deeply , that they question the very merit of living at all .
it is a darkness i wished , you would never know .
forgive us our silly lies , ivy , they were not , meant to harm .
i am , sad for you , papa , for all the elders .
on this paper has been written , a tool of medicine it is common in the town . you will go .
with two escorts .
follow the sounds of the stream .
a half days journey will , bring you to a hidden road .
at this hidden road , the two escorts will wait , as you continue .
you , alone , will follow the road .
and leave covington woods .
you are to tell no one in the towns , who you are .
and return with haste .
i cannot come with you .
you gave your heart , to this boy , he is in need .
are you ready to take this burden ?
which by right is yours and yours alone ?
i am making fresh cloths for lucius .
he needs them .
i have send someone for help .
i have send ivy to the towns !
you cannot .
it is all i can give you .
it is all i can give you !
i accept .
what have you done ?
he is the victim of a crime .
we have agreed never to go back !
never !
what was the purpose of our leaving ,
let us not forget it was our hope of something good and right !
you should have not made decisions without us !
i am guilty robert !
i made a decision of the heart ,
i cannot look into another s eyes and see the same look i see in august' s without justification
it is true people , i cannot bear it .
you have jeopardised everything we' ve made
who do you think will continue this place ?
this life ?
do you plan to live forever ?
it is in them that our future lies !
it is in ivy and lucius that this , this way of life will continue .
yes , i have risked ,
i hope i am always able to risk everything for the just and right cause .
if we did not make this decision , we could never again call ourselves innocent and that , in the end , is what we have protected here .
innocence .
that i' m not ready to give up !
let her go !
if it ends it ends .
we can move towards hope , it' s the most beautiful about this place .
we must not run from heartache .
my brother was living in the towns , the rest of my family died here .
heartache is a part of life , we know that now .
ivy is running toward hope ,
let her run .
this place is worthy .
she should be successful in the quest .
how could you have send her ?
she' s blind .
she is more capable than the rest of us .
when she is lead by love , the world woos for love .
it kneels before it in all .
there did exist rumours of creatures in these woods .
it is in one of the history books i used to teach in the towns
it is not real !
it is not real !
noah ?
oh my god !
where can it be ?
he found one of the suits we kept under the floorboards .
the animals !
his will to live is very strong .
a half day' s journey will bring you to a hidden road .
you , alone , will follow the road .
and leave covington woods .
you are to tell no one in the towns where we are , and return with haste .
my sister did not live passed her 23rd birthday .
a group of men raped and killed her .
they stuffed her in a dumpster , two blocks from her apartment .
my brother worked in an emergency room down town
a drug addict came in with a wound to his ribs , my brother tried to dry the wound , he pulled a gun from his jacket and he shot my brother , through his left eye .
my husband michael ,
left for the supermarket at 9 : 15 in the morning .
he was found with no money and no clothes in the east river , three days later .
my father was shot
by a business partner , who then hanged himself in my father s closet .
they argued over money .
i am a professor , i teach ,
american history , at the university of pennsylvania .
i have an idea , that i would like to talk to you about .
ml 27 , there is a girl , i am gonna check it out .
walker " wild life preserve
you are not allowed to go in there .
please return to your vehicle .
what was that noise ?
what are you doing out here ?
how did you get here ?
are you from the towns ?
where are you from ?
the woods !
you came from the woods ?
in there ?
will you help me ?
i need to find a doctor of medicine .
find these things , you have to make haste .
listen , mam ' ,
i' m just supposed to ,
is someone hurt ?
please sir , we must make haste !
you live in there ?
i do , sir .
what is your name ?
kevin .
kevin , you have kindness in your voice .
i did not expect that .
we have guards here , exactly every 10 miles , around the perimeter of the preserve .
we keep medical supplies in case of animal bites or related injuries .
you can find the things written on the paper ?
you have to wait here .
please mister ,
please .
take this as payment .
you' re not tricking me , are you ?
i do not understand ?
what is your name ?
ivy .
ivy elisabeth walker
what is with the girl ?
i tried calling you back from the loft , but you didn' t answer .
oh , it was just some teenagers , they were lost .
i give you some advice ,
don' t get into conversations .
you start talking , you start getting into hassles , which is paying all of us , no one is allowed to go in there , disturb the animal sanctuary ,
people s interest get peaked .
it' s a real easy gig , kevin , . maintain and protect the border , that' s it .
a few years ago it got out into the papers that some government guys had been paid of to keep plane routes from flying over this place .
those were very stressful times for me .
don' t cause me any troubles .
do not get into conversations .
e. j. , where is the manuals ladder ?
i need to fix the sign .
it' s in the back .
ivy has returned with medicines from the towns .
she was attacked by a creature and killed it
we will find him .
and we will give him ,
a proper burial .
we will tell the others ,
he was killed by the creatures .
your son has made our stories real .
noah has given us a chance to continue this place .
here , that is something ,
we still wish for .
i' m back lucius
