saturday 6 of january of 1917
five condemned soldiers until death were lead to the sector of bullavent , in the front of the somme .
first cheer adventurer of long ago took hung plate 2124 of an induction center of the sen the boots that took , one had taken off a german soldier .
before the 2124 ,
bastoche call , one tied with beautiful pelirroja of name vronique passavant .
he was carpenter in the hem .
sometimes between furniture and furniture , they took a beer in the bar l' il louis from the passage the gold hand .
the boots to an enemy had cleared him who no longer needed them . in order to replace them , once filled up with straw and newspaper paper , by its old half boots .
it was put under advice military by voluntary mutilation .
they had found rest of powder in the wound of its hand , and was condemned until death .
the second was the 4077 of another induction center of the sen.
it was soldering iron of the state railroads in manille .
francis ganire was called , said six soux to him .
wise person who the poor men made the tubes that would kill them , and that was the rich ones who sold them .
it had tried to explain it during the quarterings , but it was not a great orador .
in addition , the cheap wine companion of the misery stultified so much the glance of the soldiers that every time cost but to be made understand to him .
1818 was without doubts , but the brave one .
but the frightful one . it had killed an official of its company .
an official who kicked to deads .
vos ... levntate !
never whole nobody .
benot notre dame was a farmer of dordoa .
a morning of august appeared in their farm and they put it in a train .
taken care of with the cable .
the cable of the telephone laying was the unique thing that united them to the world of the alive ones . by that fine thread , it could arrive to them i pardon of president raymond poincare .
he was the unique one that was lost the faith it was i number 7328 recruited in crcega .
ange bassignano
according to that they knew it , a name less had never been guessed right : he was mentiroso , cheating , fanfarrn informer and manipulator .
before it was the proxeneta of lombardi bathtub
it was the cause of which they condemned it to five years of jail , by an honor or love subject depending on if one related to a woman or a man . in aim ... an adjustment of accounts between proxenetas of the town .
during the summer of 1916 one recruited delinquents in order to be able replace losses with the massacreed regiments in berdun hell .
it was let to them choose .
those tombs for that they are ?
the truth that ... in aim ... as tomorrow they are going to attack ... we go ... advancing work .
taken care of with the cable .
fifth he was a kid who belonged of the villa of the 17 it needed five months to fulfill the 20 .
by those times tapeworm fear of everything : of the french tubes that shot close too much , of the wind that propagated the gas of the assault hunters , of the executions
before the war it was not thus , all the opposite ...
it defied to storms aiding to keeps lights when the tide raised .
to the attack .
then a light others it change all .
there am boy , you will return to see your fiance , already tenes the passport ?
if , the passport for the advice military .
my sergeant , makes the vista fat already has had enough .
carajo , sergeant could condemn it until death
have compassion by once .
vast already !
we go sergeant , has mercy .
it is already enough !
when mathilde and manech made the love for the first time
manech i remain slept with the hand in its chest .
whenever manech felt to annoy its wound it was like feeling the beat of the heart of mathilde in the palm of its hand .
and each beat approached it .
if manech were dead , mathilde would know it .
from the news of its death , she i cling obstinately to its intuition like a a fine thread .
it never lost the hope .
mathilde is of optimistic nature it knows that if that thread does not take it until loved his it does not matter , it does not pass anything , always will be able to be hung with .
in june of 1920 mathilde it received a letter of a nun .
a patient of the hospital wanted to see it .
it was with manech in january of 1917 , the front of the somme
august of 1912 , was a good looking man does not seem to him ?
it is of lemon , with direct gear box .
dgame please that has happened to him to manech
in january of 1917 they ordered me that she escorted to five the condemned until death through the front .
era one of them ?
if .
tapeworm that to take them to a trench in forward edge .
gendarmes hoped to us with the prisoners next to a small cemetery in ruins .
that beams with those german boots ?
to hope .
to hope that ?
i pardon of poincare ? it hopes seated .
it signed it .
to my they must not to me have condemned .
i am privateering you know ? nonfrench !
it goes , djelo .
there is lost the judgment .
better for .
i finish my lieutenant ?
this saving fried , of to have been summer the gangrene had killed it .
and manech ... underwent much with the wound of its hand ?
two fingers had amputated him , but apparently it was well .
tapeworm that to take them to a called trench bingo twilight .
excrement goes .
they could not be had exhausted of these useless ones by the way ?
to remove them to kicks in the ass ?
my you order are to give to the five condemned , the others is not thing mine .
i will say to him then as they are mine ...
they are to throw to those boys to the trench and to let them die like dogs between the two firing lines .
those are my putas you order of excrement .
sergeant !
sergeant , with the germans we have a species in tactical agreement .
the sector this a little sleepy , a kick in the ass and that the excrement splashes to us .
the soup boys , hot one has luck this .
beet and hinojo .
that it is what you love boy ?
a chocolate cup and a piece of bread with honey .
i you bring it .
allows me my lieutenant ?
calm , he is orphaned , but surely that obtains it .
he is the privateer of the mobile field kitchens .
15 minutes but late , it brought everything .
mantequilla with salt , honey of lavagne and ...
cacao of nigeria .
i am glad .
there am boy , not tenes to that to write to him ?
tenes fiance truth ?
mathilde
her fiance is called mathilde .
mathilde
i feel as if its heart annoyed in morse code .
we thought to marry .
they condemned to us and no longer we will have to hope to that the war finishes .
i will be able to return to house as soon as the execution finishes .
perhaps it prefers that it does not tell the rest him .
i am lame , nonstupid .
cunteme which step .
we opened a breach in the wire fences and we equipped to the five against fried .
clestin poux gave its fianc one of its red wool gloves , so that the hand was protected .
this distant spot ?
to less than 100 mts .
far for the grenades and close for the artillery .
and of the gas nor to speak .
think that they were saved ?
if they do not fly by airs they have all the numbers to die of starvation or of it fried .
in any case the germans will *** reflx mng themselves awhile .
bastoche the carpenter and the end embraced themselves .
the gordes end .
it was clear that they were known from before the war .
soon ... we removed them outside the trench .
excrement . and and cilate .
excrement .
cilate !
september of 1914 , kl with facility raises 70 and that that no longer was so in form as before .
but that morning , in january of the 17 manech was alive ?
to the dawn , favart shout its names .
all , except the farmer of dordoa , responded .
bassignano ?
present .
bouquette ?
that is what wants ?
langonnet ?
if , i am here .
boy you would have esconderte better a little .
notre dame ?
notre dame ?
not nothing but .
it retires destroyed to me to write my report young lady .
it was already hour hope , the english stand out to us , we go away .
and the subject bingo ?
that he is that ?
the list of the condemned signed by favourier captain
i leave ahi it ' ? it does not give it to me .
that it does there like an idiot , nor which this outside ponpeya ?
it is promoted to sergeant first morning will leave for the bosbos .
even so my commander , this mission is going away to me to be crossed in the throat .
good , also there are balsamic caramels for the throat there .
the caramels of the bosbos .
retirese .
months but late hurt to me in the somme .
in the ambulance i accidentally was with chardolot one of the ends of bingo twilight . single it had left few days of life .
i have ...
i am hope ...
bingo twilight you remember ?
it pardons by not haberte recognized .
it tell me , my no man' s land boys ... ... as i finish that history ?
vos that you create ?
none sobrevivio ' ?
tenes conscience remorses hope ?
you had quedarte with us in bingo .
you had seen record capital ms and soon to hondear ... ... underpants and to plan an albatross .
these being delirious .
tenes fever .
we threw between the two lines to five boys with life and recovered to five cold cuts . so ...
there am lost the vista sergeant , but i imagine its expression and i am glad .
i really speak of capital ms and an albatross ?
if ... and of underpants .
have young lady , here this whole which the condemned of bingo twilight they requested me that she made arrive at its families .
my state does not have i allow to me to do it .
it is a copy of the letter of the farmer benot notre dame to its woman .
i sent the original one to him when leaving bingo .
its state is consequence to the gas in the lungs ?
it is not for that reason ... it is by the spanish influenza !
as it sees , the death has inescrutables ways .
mathilde if you do not prune to cry speech !
and if you do not prune to speak ... it shuts up !
but sometimes we began to speak and soon we put ourselves to cry . and when crying we say what we have not said when speaking .
not if you understand to me ?
if i did not follow asi ' ... with that face of stupid .
l' il louis decile to vero that not the forgetfulness and that moan that it does not want to speak with me eh seen biscotte and we have reconciled .
good bye friend .
bastoche
benot notre dame numero 1818 i will be a time without being able escribirte .
decile to berney which i want to eliminate it everything to first of march , it sells all the too expensive installment , it is necessary to have well taken care of with .
decile to my bagtistan that i want so much to it that never passed nothing to him bad .
i have never known anybody so good .
i want to you .
benot
for lombardi bathtub from ange bassignano .
if chick pea enters the room before they call me to eat , manech this alive one .
i am not hungry .
to eat , we are going to eat .
mathilde to eat .
immediately low .
mathilde was born the 1 of january of 1900
this is very i practice to calculate its age .
in 1903 their parents passed away in the accident of group 44 .
since then mathilde must by custom repeat ;
late parents ... late parents ...
their uncle and his aunt sylvain and bndicte take care of of her , thanks to the life insurance that administers the lawyer of its parents ; pierre marie rouvires .
to the five mathilde years the virus of pollio contracted .
step many months postroad in the bed , in spite of the mustard cataplasms , the pendulums , and the infusions of trboles of four leaves .
today mathilde is 20 years old , touches the tuba , because it is the only instrument that seems to emit an aid signal .
chick pea the dog , throws pedos while to duer to me .
whenever bndicte hears it says ...
treasonous dog pedorro .
mathilde needs to receive to newspaper well taken care of medical for its legs .
the georges cornu the champion of britain of free style of swimming gives massages him .
something ashamed felt in the beginning but already it is had customary .
their precious curves are young lady , and i assure to him that my hands have crossed a few .
my dear gorge ...
my loved gorge ...
gogo
sometimes , before sleeping one imagines situations enough it jeopardize .
mathilde never has the necessity to arrive until the end of the eventful journeys of its imagination to succumb to the pleasure .
from its disappearance , it cannot think about its fiance ' when it looks for the pleasure .
that we are going to him to do ?
i who vos would forget to me the mathilde , as anything they serve the castles in the air .
if he were alive because not to give to life signals eh ?
because they have prisoner .
and a german with two blond braids takes care of and two great teats .
a bretn eating chucrut all santo impossible day ....
surely that you do not need that it helps you ?
then no , i prefer that you maintain the feet in the ground .
i am worth at least by my own foot .
that you said ?
nothing
we go that it listens to you !
what you say has neither feet nor head .
manech cannot be prisoner in bingo , because they are our who took the enemy lines .
and those that win are generally those that take prisoners .
it will have it lost the north , or it will be hidden .
dejate of mathilde fantasies tenes that resignarte .
young and beautiful sos , you could find a husband in spite of ....
in all this history there is something does not fit .
i must find to ... plunderer of kitchens ...
clestin poux
that it is what you love boy ?
perhaps or to prostituta of the privateering , it knows but that i.
tomorrow i go away to paris .
so that ?
in order to look for survivor of bingo twilight .
...
i have the archives until the ceiling , it does not imagine whichever cases had not seen the light if germain pire had not contributed its sand granite .
put attention to this .
an extremely delicate subject .
in 1917 a train with soldiers derails 427 dead ones . thanks to the investigation we discovered that the official it gave you order to leave although the brakes did not work .
it was a concealment maneuver from the government of poincare
the only possibility of the families of victimas to find to the official ...
germain pire .
the spy who pa .
oh and po young lady .
and i found the official the grief of the high military spheres .
in agreement , in the cemetery of craon .
as soon as it makes my suitcases i leave to look for them , to poux clestin and the lover of the privateering
as far as its honoraria spy sir who pa ?
the spy watches young lady who pa knows to that must pluck .
for you they will be 20 francs per day but the expenses , clear !
and because it does east favor to me ?
hlne veni to salute
about the expenses germain pire does not worry eats little , does not drink and he is very sparing in gratuities .
good morning good morning
notre dame de paris ?
notre dame de paris no , that i call to him from paris on notre dame , benot
ah benot notre dame if , a strong farmer and of great heart .
it died by the mother country , we say that the mother country has cleared to me but of feligrs .
their woman and her small bagtistan still live ahi ' ?
minne young lady with himself not to listen to anything .
no , a day it sold everything and they went without leaving direction .
it is a choir what i listen ?
that one is , which hears is a choir this is a church young lady .
however reason why i hear not this you in a church .
thanks father , good bye .
of anything .
bingo twilight .
this does not have feet nor head .
he is grotesco .
it thought that its vocation was to defend lost causes .
to the 10 years your insolencia tapeworm grace , but to the 20 no .
for that reason same , to see if it takes me in serious .
mathilde , mathilde , you squander your inheritance in an absurd chimera .
bingo twilight , and because nonyupi tralala ?
i want to consult the military file .
mathilde if there is an apex really in this and one of the condemned had survived would face forced works .
your investigations would cause serious problems to him .
reasonable , they trusted its interests to me ... ... your parents
late parents
indeed , my happiness was one of those interests .
good bye , and thanks .
woman you do not put yourself thus , mathilde
i guard by your future , hurts much to me to see that you have gotten worse in spite of the massages .
this good , in agreement , i will see that i can do .
it is not going to pass everything in lourdes .
good morning lady i look for lombardi bathtub i know it from small and ...
pardon ladies i am a political uncle of lombardi bathtub and ...
please , i am in charge of the interests of the lombardi family in the continent , and i look for bathtub by a small inheritance ...
are you who you look for lombardi bathtub ?
no , in fact no
does not know crcega ? she is very pretty very colorful .
but lombardi bathtub makes the street elsewhere .
luckily a member of the police body has given with her in the bar leville .
valentin emilia maria lombardi , call bathtub , were fichada in 1916 near the quarter of regiment 23 of marseilles .
after that i raise flight .
there am lost the track to him in lionne , i have not stopped to work eh .
it has disappeared in the district of the croix rousse .
it is to say that you leave .
of course that no , pire does not occur by won
pire is obstinate , the spy who pa never surrenders young lady .
perfect , thanks .
no , the eyes no
that i serve to him ?
this he is my fianc , and this of here , the carpenter
i believe that you know it .
no .
that thirst has given me suddenly .
a wine glass ?
it gives force and it cheers the way .
that same one said to my aunt grandmother .
it died in besanon in 1911 to the 99 years and she was never ill .
good luck .
i touch wood .
the war ?
no , a hyena in the botanical garden
i wanted to be called on it to do the brave one to me .
bastoche and its friend did this to me .
biscotte ?
its better friend .
they were known in the flood 1910 saving a woman .
bastoche tapeworm much talent , but biscotte ... she was an artist , a virtuoso of formn .
it was the one who i fit all the joints .
it is a wonder !
it is for you .
l' il louis decile to vero that not the forgetfulness and that moan that it does not want to speak with me eh seen biscotte and we have reconciled .
good bye friend .
bastoche
if they reconciled it is because they had been fought .
as fuel the reason ?
a mystery .
and that that happened through all together .
and of a day for another one , they were not possible nor to be seen .
biscotte change of company and being wounded it died when they bombed the military hospital .
of all ways , i am glad of that have reconciled .
it seems that today it is not this way going to have much movement , no ?
you serve a traguito to me ?
the thirst awoke to you , eh .
it has a wood hand and a gold heart .
we go , by the love .
the true one !
know you who you are vro ?
vronique passavant .
its girl , her amiguita !
they came much this way .
that it could happen so that she let speak to him ?
i suppose that some infidelity that she could not pardon .
good , 1917 this here .
that they are exactly the red files ?
secret of defense .
permission is needed acceding to them above .
clear this , is above .
be going to help him .
oh if !
let us suppose that that person of above you are ... ... then mr. rouvires and i would have permission no ?
if i thought like you nonserious official .
mathilde , mathilde you would have to be but that contents to be here .
normally usually it takes months .
what it said , it seems to him that was everything in order , but really is a chaos .
to see ... in front of the somme
sector of bullavent , trench 108 .
it sees what i say to him ?
this is a chaos !
it is i authenticate chaos .
it wants that it helps it ?
i thank for the managements to him that have done ... ... with the general , i say .
good , he is a great friend mine .
i know the sector very well bullavent , two friends mine died there .
then it has been a very bloody war ...
it does not believe that now the thing is better , every day is but difficult to find a maid .
it seems lie .
we would like to know that passage in trench 108 . ... 104 , trench 105 , 107 , lacks the 106
it sees , is a chaos !
trench 108 ... this is a chaos !
good 108 , here these ... ...
taken by ours in october of 1916 and red baptize bingo twilight .
and because nonyupi tralala ?
the 6 of january there is nothing the 7 great confrontation with numerous losses ...
favourier captain , the professor of history die in combat ...
the lieutenant ...
an adviser of insurances !
the end ....
good that but it gives ...
he is peculiar , part of the losses are classified like confidential .
confidential ?
it means ...
i feel it .
and not it can ?
no , not it can .
up to here we can arrive .
i feel it .
nor by the very same general it could do nothing .
even so i thank for the annoyances to him that have been taken .
i feel it , is nothing can be to them useful , destinies , stages , pure transacts .
it was that possibility .
as everything is a chaos !
incorrigible sos incorrigible mathilde ... ! ... nonlady , is totally impossible no , without the seal of the ministry it is impossible .
i hope that this leaf is not secret of defense .
pierre marie , if it is important i want to know it .
a permission is not nothing ... single .
of the president of the republica ?
then if , once in a while the president can give it to the soldiers who but deserve it .
already this ...... full stop .
i accompany them .
cabo bouquette clevert , end ganire francis
soldier notre dame benot , soldier bassignano ange
soldier langonnet manech
by voluntary mutilation the sentence to capital punishment .
if story up to 7 and the train has not entered a tunnel
or the guard does not come .
manech this dead
one , two , three , four , five , six
tickets please .
caste !
as soon as the newspaper return finishes , we will put your announcement .
it compensates by all information referring to bingo twilight .
that , anmala , to see if you prune to open the appetite to him . you would have to take it to the fair of camperre .
and so that ?
for distraerte a little .
you could find a good boy !
and so that ?
then , to marry you and to form a family
decicelo vos
it give a little me wine ?
from whichever takings it came ?
a wine glass gives force and cheers the way .
where you heard that ?
in the passage the gold hand , the owner of the bar , the died hand , that has a wood hand , tapeworm a uncle grandmother who said it before dying , to the 99 years in besanon in 1911 .
prune to repeat it ?
in besanon , 1911 ... one lady lived on 99 years , who died leaving a nephew who has a wood hand that he is the owner of the died hand , a bar of the gold hand .
to who she used to say , which sylvain wanted to know , where had heard it .
you see it ?
already this drunkard !
sight !
that intrepid it is the albatross
it knows that it can use the wind at will .
oh my gravel ! my gravel !
vronique passavant 17 of 1920 july
i write to him from the bar of l' il louis that has spoken to me of you .
it is precise that it knows of the encounter that i had , that has shocked to me .
it directed me to the factory of bastoche because she was melancholic .
i would like to speak with bastoche
bastoche has died ... ... in the front of the somme , not wise it ?
to my another thing consists to me .
that ?
in the hospital where i help the patients , there are terminal sifilticos .
one of them has given this me for you .
if queres not to die cover of purulentos abscesses is better than you answer to me .
the companion with whom bastoche hides
decime ... decime that is privateering !
that they did not martyr to me of small the monjitas .
lombardi bathtub knows something that we no .
as you say ?
the lombardi , knows something that we do not know .
something that would demonstrate that to bastoche this alive one !
and the other of the condemned .
obvious bathtub thinks that it is his ange .
but if bastoche has been saved , to that i am sure that i help went to manech .
if it has saved its life !
if the cows flew , milk would be in favor of clouds .
it can , but if not outside for that reason , single i would have left to hang to me .
idiot sos or that ?
whenever you come i must fix the gravel .
the one of the gravel is a style question .
for the young lady .
ironworks r. leprince , paris 1920 july 25 .
young lady , i take advantage of sunday today to write to him with respect to its warning where it says that it looks for clestin poux and other survivors of bingo twilight .
i knew it , was the buscavidas ones but great that have known .
i recognize that thanks to , never i lack nothing .
olivier manufacturing nergeton of mechanical toys .
clestin poux was our salvation , we called recogemigas .
it falsified i number of losses , to multiply i number of cash , in order that the boy we had double ration of food .
if he sees , dgale someday it that the veterans of fontenau never we will forget it .
professor , august 3 of 1920
we died of laughter with , to entertain to us i get to train to the mascot of the company .
good morning lady , germain pire private detective .
oh if , mathilde has spoken to us of you .
sylvain decile to mathilde that lowers , the type that pa this hoping .
the great pire moves like the ray , can spend a day in each site .
in any case we will need luck and patience to throw the glove to him .
even but ?
mathilde taking i bring salty galletitas to you .
to see that they seem to you ?
they would not be better in the kitchen ?
bndicte thanks .
good , i leave them .
poux is a mystery , auque lombardi bathtub does not remain cuts
it is the one that but confuses . , and to make matters worse it changes of identity .
and of biscotte some newness ?
watch , this is gordes youngest child it is the photo in that i gain the carpentry prize , for sixth consecutive year .
but !
if young lady .
biscotte , the best friend of bastoche , is not other that gordes youngest child .
and a soldier of its company me conto ' ... ... that was like meat and nail before the things were entangled .
djame !
i do not want to fight with vos .
calm djame .
of who was the idea ?
it was idea mine ?
it was idea yours .
it was by a subject of skirts .
vronique passavant broke with bastoche in june of the 16 and immediately afterwards , bastoche fight with gordes youngest child .
it is not necessary to be a lynx , no ?
then they did not become to see until the one of bingo twilight ?
bingo twilight is where everything finishes . ... it is not where everything begins mr. pire
where everything begins .
lombardi bathtub this safe that bastoche this alive one .
that it differentiated to bastoche from the others in bingo twilight ?
that he was the only carpenter , no ?
there is a thing that differentiates to bastoche from the others ... ... the german boots .
he was the unique one that german tapeworm dull .
clear ! that is ! tenes reason .
lombardi bathtub has had to find out that the man that it wore german boots had saved .
it would be enough that they had seen him with some companion .
i crossed myself two french they seemed mendigos ... ... one until tapeworm boots that a german had cleared to him . ... it was throwing of the other because cojeaba .
in addition to the boots , we know that bastoche had made the peace with its better friend .
exact ! who knows if to that nonchange the things that night ?
if the hair without the skin is broken
gordes the adjustment to be saved to bastoche , and manech .
to that rate i do not put the cake in the furnace until next year .
i must return to paris
that ?
that i must return to paris .
again ? you are going to spend all the inheritance of your parents .
late parents .
excuse , elodie gordes ?
that the one of the carrots .
ah , thanks sir .
elodie gordes ?
take
i do not know it .
to as of both it is who does not know ?
it will not be to this ?
because bastoche and biscotte were fought ?
it was by you ?
vyase , i do not have anything to say to him .
no , i need to know it .
they were seen by completes time in bingo twilight .
my fianc was there also ... with bastoche in that excrement trench .
i need to know it .
i need to know it .
it was not as you create .
i cannot tell it to it
dme its direction , although i have misspelling ,
i will put everything in a letter .
i promise it .
there is nothing for my ?
that you say ?
that if there is nothing for my ?
single the newspaper ... speaks less worldwide of elodie gordes .
it does not have grace
you are mistaken !
speech of very interesting things .
the president has opened to an investigation on the condemned of bingo twilight ?
then , it had been able to at night make it have fallen of a train in half , and in pajamas
at least duer to me in pajamas .
eh ?
that duer to me in pajamas .
... and we recovered five cold cuts
in addition to thief , you are a pyromaniac .
they are all for my ?
no
single this .
by once i do not have to gather the gravel , but to the mailman .
coat the gravel ! a clean war !
there is no clean war .
between a to take something .
young lady , him request keeps for you my secrets .
when i knew my husband , tapeworm four children of its first marriage no was his .
according to generosity one had married with a young tuberculosa widow of polish nationality , like i.
it recognized its children before she died .
i was unmarried mother of a girl of 3 years .
when we began saw father of five children , without it could generate no .
we had four years of happiness .
we had many plans .
we dreamed to be able to once see the sea in the life .
but i arrive the war .
first i thought that his bastoche friend would take care of of because they were together , but when permission wine for the first time , in september of 1915 after the campaign of artua ,
i included/ understood that already nothing would return to be like before .
there this gives forces us to follow .
a day in a battlefield in flames i saw like a companions the cartridge holders exploded to them as if they were firecrackers .
once we even used the corpse of a companion , as if outside a shield .
it had been time thinking about something , the second night i explode .
you will understand that if i desert they arrested gendarmes to me .
the only possibility of releasing to me is having a sixth son .
to that it has 6 children , they send it to house .
as i already said to him , the sterile era
it could not imagine that it is what glided .
but it returned again with the subject .
but if i am who request you elodie , is not adultery .
and less if it is with bastoche .
i do not touch !
no of the five is mine , who but gives another one ?
although it embarrasses we would have to wait for 9 months to me ... ... by then the war already will have finished .
it never finished !
those nine months serian of hope for my .
he is that not tenes compassion ?
and thus it was as a day i found a letter of clevert bouquette , bastoche alias .
it put that it hung something of color in the window , but wanted that it raised .
good morning .
good morning .
i made coffee , wants a little ?
if , thank you very much .
it happens .
no , you first .
thank you very much .
i put sugar to him ?
no , thanks .
it is of nacre ?
if , it made youngest child .
he is peculiar that .... we do not have ourselves if . known before
the children are not aca ' ?
if , they are playing outside .
a digestive with cafe ' ?
if
in fact not ... pardon !
it does not desire to me .
to my either .
elodie listening we say to him that we have done it . thus it remained calm by a time .
he is the best thing for you ...
i create i ... and for my .
and for all .
he is peculiar , when you smile there will be a parenthesis .
it will close but the possible thing late .
the day after tomorrow , in the station .
we go , one completes smile .
in order to close the parenthesis .
i do not have left pregnant .
but soon after , it was not the fear which i torment my husband , but the jealousy .
where ?
when ?
whichever times ?
in which positions ?
you enjoyed ?
one became a torture for and my .
now already this .
bastoche has died like sabra ' !
and my husband died in the bombing to the hospital .
me long ago to be sincere well with you young lady .
sometimes i am scared to return to me crazy .
elodie gordes .
mathilde apurate , mr. rouvires this to the telephone hoping .
we go , express .
it says .
mathilde , i am pierre marie .
i have darte the bad news .
good bad , one the news that without a doubt you hoped ... ... and that from now on you will not be able to continue ignoring .
summarizing , in a thing tapeworms reason ,
manech and its 4 companions were in that trench .
they are buried in the cemetery of tertullian .
first they were buried under a canvas in the crater of a howitzer .
already this , my small mathilde ...
in june of 1909 mathilde tapeworm 9 years ,
manech langonnet ... 10
it hurts to you when you walk ?
it had of being friday , or saturday .
mathilde no longer remembers it .
tenes friends ?
if queres i can be your friend ?
that it happens i smell bad ?
you raised the light sometimes ?
i can llevarte until above of everything !
... because the guard light is my father .
as you want been conceited , proud , believed , stretched !
eh ! mocoso , queres that you of a kick in the ass ?
to where it is seen from the stop of the light ?
merienda .
treasonous dog pedorro !
manech but mathilde
mathilde but manech
manech but mathilde mathilde but manech
manech but mathilde
taking but if i do not smoke ! , llevatelo !
if i arrive at the curve before the car
manech will return safe and sound .
if i arrive at the curve .
if i arrive at the curve before the manech car returns safe and sound .
if i arrive at the curve .
good morning .
you were conceited to have a year but that i.
and now i am greater than vos .
the one that gave the glove you calls poux ...
clestin poux .
he is a slippery one .
the detective whom she contracts calls pire .
germain pire .
it has not found nor to the fulana of the privateering .
the manech script is had broken ... ... but it will not leave .
i have confidence in the track of lombardi bathtub .
i need to be safe .
me entendes ?
for that reason it is important that it finds to clestin poux .
sos great incordio , you know ?
with the good that we would be
we go away mathilde ?
you are going to take fried .
killed in action the 7 of june of 1917 .
thouvenel ?
that it wants ?
who you are ?
were you who i am called ?
who you are ?
they spent the days and it did not receive the news of clestin poux .
mathilde was lowered by the sadness .
it must eat , is going away to us to become ill .
then djale the best portion .
it ended up leaving the flavor us of the misfortune , already sides !
finally , the 15 of september of 1920 to the average night , the thread , returned to tie .
victory !
finally him i have thrown the glove to the slippery one of poux , was sent it with venia of god , and harley davison .
expenses including of course .
germain pire
clestin poux , the terror of the highway .
is his the announcement ?
mathilde tightened the fists the one against the other , not to shake , to cry or to be in evidence like an idiot .
i did not saw fall to his fiance ' , had been going to look for the farm then i was with levert , a type that i knew in the boscos .
neighbor of the valley of the mosa .
but that neighboring , cretino !
but wise to differentiate the arabic coffee , of any medicine .
we had a great problem when we mixed coffee with coal grains , in order to change it to it by dutch tobacco .
it completes time that saw manech , he was alive ?
it was impossible not to see it , instead of hiding itself it was put to carve m in the trunk of a calcined tree .
it gave time him to carve three ms before it demolished the albatross .
the albatross ?
albatross .
great marine bird , that follows as indolent fellow traveller , to the ship furrowing the bitter abysses .
it is a poem of baudelaire
but in 1915 it was also a german airplane , with a machine gun in the vanguard .
in that then , it was not possible to be shot through the helices .
were you who you gave the glove him ?
red , of heavy wool .
i tapeworm a fiance who passed the day weaving to me scarfs and gloves , that it changes to generals with the full fingers of sabaones , by gold teeth that removed to the dead germans .
i fused them and thanks to them can buy the harley to me .
but , this safe that manech this dead ?
a companion who saw the body said to us , that with a similar wound , it was not necessary to look for the fifth leg to him the cat .
of the 5 , single i saw with my own eyes , as they loaded themselves to 3 of them .
i surrender ....
i surrender ...
they do not shoot .
mercy ...
i surrender .
djenme to happen !
i am of its side ...
mercy !
i am not french !
i am privateering .
i do not have anything against the germans .
poor man .
so nonsos french ?
then to we annul your game of birth .
the one was an end of ours that him firing .
thouvenel
a tioso of easy trigger , with heart of stone and vista of lynx .
poor man .
it likes truth ?
i am a easy man , would kill to all my family by a stew .
calm he is orphaned ! also by escabeche and pur of trufa .
if they like trufas indeed i come from ...
already !
those who it saw die with its own eyes ?
to that it was infected by the gangrene .
six soux ?
if , the soldering iron .
comrades , before dying
i have one completes will .
i would like to piss of foot , like a man !
later , comrades , fire at will !
good bye to the life
good bye to the love
and to all the women
i finish it is the end
damn war infame here i am finished we will be killed they condemned us to all and they are going to us to sacrifice
and bastoche ?
it was very well hidden and we could not find it .
even the morning when we happened list and i answer , nobody could locate it .
he is as if outside ventrlocuo .
no , he was carpenter .
reason why i have heard , it demolition the albatross at the same time that to its fiance ' .
the explosion set afire the albatross that i crash in the german line , in house .
and to the farmer of dordoa that him step ?
the dead was made from the beginning , but it did not serve to him as anything .
to the germans the one did not do grace to them of the airplane .
when it returns already with the farm the shots had begun .
soon they began to bomb .
those that has not lived it do not know what is .
the legs shake to you , do not respond to you .
the heart barks to you like the one of a terrified animal .
then i saw to a the farmer of dordoa fall thundered against .
we must attack before they kill to us .
to pierce bayonets !
to pierce bayonets !
to pierce bayonets !
what them story is music compared with the reality .
by france ...
to the attack !
we had left back corpses of the prisoners , when the tableteo of metralletas began , the maxim . ... they massacreed to us .
lavrouye has remained with the paper ...
stretcher bearers !
a paper ?
that paper ?
nontube time to say but .
that night was triple ration of soup .
favart and chardolot were making the casualty report .
because the five condemned appears like soldiers of the battalion ?
we fulfilled you order .
berry tomato !
rima with silly thing !
if , and with chocolate .
we go that the soup cools off !
one already cooled off .
but of 5 the single one it saw die to 3
with its eyes .
young lady the false single hope produces suffering .
no , it is not a false hope .
it proved my pie of plum ?
not if it would have !
with a little cream .
he is flattering that knows to appreciate it .
it will be better than it lays down it .
all we needed to rest .
slowly , slowly !
him lack dignity , style !
this clear one that his it is the rake .
mailman raises who i take it until the next mailbox .
i will take it , i have been in the war , but i am not civil employee .
we go ! ... it is not my fault , i am asthmatic !
if an asthmatic one that walks in bicycle !
but near the sea .
clear ah near the sea !
clestin hears that does not go in sidecar .
men , are all like children, eh ?
while they do not play being welded . ... decile to berney which i want to eliminate it everything to first of march , it sells all the too expensive installment ...
it is not possible that it speaks of those trivialities ?
it does not seem to him ?
good , it must be in key .
but the system of numbers of the enamored ones is not solved nor with divine inspiration .
and bastoche ? if they have seen with the german boots tube it that have left with life !
absolutely young lady .
the gordes end did not want that bastoche left the trench with the boots of the enemy .
if the germans see you with them they will give by fact that you have ransacked to one of his .
then lombardi bathtub left from a false track .
its soldier with german boots ... it was not bastoche !
it was gordes
it went accompanied by much by the villa of the 17 a certain derochette .
i crossed myself stretcher bearers who finished seeing them .
eh sos of bingo ?
because ?
decile that to the gordes end has hurt it in the head that we even saw it next to a boy whom this worse .
derochette is called , went to the aid station .
the anarchy lives !
the anarchy !
that it passes mathilde to you ?
mathilde abri ' !
we go reasonable !
it is possible to be known that it did to him ?
nothing ...
for three years you have been knowing that to manech this dead
that is called obstinacy
no , that is called hope , and mr. poux finishes killing it .
if i can do something to compensate it ?
if .
to take bingo twilight .
you seem a princess india to backs of its elephant .
with its sequito , to backs of its sadness . here it is !
there to 100 mts . was ... ... the trench of the germans .
and the tree , the calcined trunk where this ?
oh ! the stumps and all the rest they were used to cover both trenches .
the five had a bandaged hand , we found them there , to 20 mts , under a canvas with earth shovelfuls it raises .
it was not a plate of good pleasure .
i already imagine !
but the young one seemed a boy .
it remembers if it took a glove ?
a red glove , of heavy wool ?
all of them had a bandaged hand , that i decide to me but in the other they did not have anything , i did not saw any glove .
athos !
i do not like that she investigates here .
in this zone a little is removed the earth and can be a mine , that it removes to an arm an arm or a leg to you in less than sings a rooster .
cripta . is one was a chapel between the german line and ours ... ... now single they are left a pile of ruins .
i do not decide to me anything !
i do not recognize anything !
it is possible that manech lost the glove when falling ?
era of heavy wool , but of dense point it was fit very , other it last to me until the end of the war .
perhaps the coat , to write in the trunk .
that not it , but i do not create .
and of which red era ?
red alive ?
red intense .
tapeworm embroidered white points , it seemed a become wormy apple .
excuse that she approaches it thus , but the family of my husband , it underwent much during the war ... and i have not wanted that nobody sees me approach me the table of a french veteran , understands to me no ?
that it is what knows ?
before dying , my brother saw his fianc ... ... to record three letters in the trunk of a tree .
tapeworm a red glove with white points .
a companion of me told everything it .
when an airplane of the our firing on its fianc ... ... him revolvi estomago .
and immediately afterwards ... ...
i untie hell .
that day , twice god him except for the life to that french soldier .
suddenly , his they contraatacaron ... ... they killed my brother !
tapeworm 23 years .
i have come to see its cross in the cemetery .
i feel much .
the time cures everything .
already the side !
i must return , or they were worried .
then i have not killed it absolutely !
that ? ... the hope !
now that happens ?
lombardi bathtub .
they are going to guillotine it .
the assassin of officials calls it .
it has assassinated among others to lavrouye and thouvnel
tapeworm intention to kill marshal piton .
when i think that you used a wheelchair to be affected ...
you are the unique one with whom i have accepted to speak ... ... because that we look like .
well ! let us leave it thus .
what i did , could well do it you .
no , i do not create .
it had been much scared .
i am not scared .
nor i regret anything .
safe by my hair ... ... me they cut it before executing to me .
i will look like juana de arco when it reunites to me with my ange .
because marshal piton who did ?
the one to throw in the trench the mutilated soldiers was idea hers .
and because nonpoincare , denied to them i pardon .
as it does not know it ?
it had pardoned them , to the five .
a permission is single .
lavrouye has remained with the paper ...
and because that lavrouye did ?
because the pigs behave like pigs !
but one does not worry , orders to me of .
we have taken the same investigation .
each one to its way .
looking for some veteran of bingo ... ...
i gave with a nurse who had cured to my ange and the other condemned .
that philippot nurse , had seen one of the five .
to a strong boy , hurt in the head
he was a strong , wounded boy in the head , used german boots .
according to , german tapeworm dull .
and it loaded with a thin young person .
i believe that if ... ...
i am safe i say ! ... hard , hurt in the head . its head i advise to him that it was shut up .
you better than nobody it will include/ understand the hope that i felt .
but soon after i knew that i annihilate all my illusions .
sergeant first favart .
it counted me as that pig of thouvenel thundered against to my ange .
with a single firing .
also it orders to me of .
single tapeworm a thing in mind ... ... to eliminate all those that had made him damage to my ange .
its ange i leave this for you .
the revenge is useless , tries to be happy and you do not squander your life by my .
ange
...
gordes , the one that change the german boots with bastoche ...
he was strong ?
biscotte ?
no , he was not athletic , it was like you or i.
and of jean de desrochelles has known nothing ?
desrochelles ?
ah if , he were not very sociable , i believe that it lives single with its mother .
pardon i must leave it , i leave within one hour for venezuela .
good clestin luck .
also .
when i think that i hide myself i pardon of poincare ...
it had not served as anything to throw but firewood to the fire , comprndelo .
i have i complete favor that pedirte pierre marie .
i suppose that it will have to do with bingo .
son of the bookseller pal desrochelles died in february of 1897 .
jean desrochelles that is !
hope , if in somme .
if very well .
thanks .
dgame mr. piere , lombardi bathtub , you had to know what she glided !
but the prudent thing was not to cross itself in its way .
if the thing puts faith , the one that spies caquea ?
not ... the one that spies of which they see him is not entrusted .
by the way , i have a new bet that to give him .
jean desrochelles evacuee of the front of the somme in january of the 17 , only relative its mother . widow of pal desrochelles .
rue of vie 22
and that wants that i do ?
it wanted to speak with me ?
if
the companion of my brother , of whom he speaks to him , one has remembered something ... ... that could interest to him .
both french soldiers who escorted it , that monday in the morning , they wanted to happen again through no man' s land .
they saw the bodies of the condemned , one was in a species of cavity and both french they seemed to be surprised .
not if that can be to him useful young lady ?
thanks .
... decile to berney that i want to eliminate it everything to first of march it sells all the too expensive installment , it is necessary to have well taken care of with . it sells all the too expensive installment .
good , it must be in key .
i call the gentleman to you who pa .
it has not found anything in saenz ...
say who is ?
if young lady , i decide to me
berney ? it does not sound me for anything .
i do not know anybody call thus .
benot notre dame fertilized its earth with the dung of its animals , did not buy installment .
thanks father .
i must decipher this letter .
i am approaching .
estare ' ...
berney ...
march ... sells everything deci ... nothing ... perhaps ... nobody
benot .
pardons sir , the farm of the aim of the world ?
it completes house , at the end of the way .
and if it does not come ?
vendra ' ! you do not worry .
volve within two hours .
hello mathilde
he is dangerous to revive to deads .
when i saw your announcement in the newspaper
i knew that single it was time question , so that gendarmes lay down to me above .
you do not worry , i could undo of vos ... ... but i did not do it .
in addition to thief , sos a pyromaniac !
i was not able of matarte .
when there is to kill to a rabbit or a hen , she is my woman who has it to do .
the war has left me without desire .
it already knows what i want to listen !
manech this alive one ?
it completes time that i saw was not very well .
but he is but strong of which it seems .
it is necessary to be together .
when i finish the combat takes advantage of to sleep , to replenish forces .
that it is what wants ?
notre dame ?
soon the privateering decided to surrender .
immediately afterwards they killed the soldering iron of paris .
later your fianc stem letters in the trunk of a tree , and then i arrive the german albatross .
recover the knowledge when the earth shook .
i do not even understand that it was what step ... ... the only thing that i saw was a hatch that the projectile i open .
... by france to the attack .
they entered no man' s land and in the second line they were massacreed by the shrapnel .
hours later , woke up voices to me .
oh god mine !
bastoche has died !
we cannot leave it here .
later we will come by , is not going away to go .
oh bastoche has died
sight ! that moves .
that is the kid , also is going to die .
the explosion destruction the hatch .
one of both welded i arrive severely wounded .
bastoche has died !
all we are going to die .
he was the friend of bastoche , the one that had cleared him the german boots .
after eating , it smokes its tobacco to me .
soon it listens to but voices .
excrement goes !
he is not the kid !
that it does this aca ' ?
and the farmer of dordoa where this ?
sir !
i have cold ' !
calm
although he was seriously wounded , your fianc wanted to live ,
i saw in its eyes .
the loading on my shoulders and i began to walk by the trench .
it had much fever , felt it to burn in my back .
it was delirious .
it spoke of a heart that barked in its hand .
cabo ! the hospital this to 500 meters .
it wants that we take to its companion in the stretcher ?
no .
if they are crossed some sergeant major of bingo dganle that the gordes end went to the hospital with desrochelles soldier .
good , as it wants .
arrive before the explosion .
i must say that to the general staff nontube better idea than to mount the hospital in a hangar , with a full airship of i hydrogenate .
the kid has been evacuated in the convoy that finishes leaving .
it will be put well ?
the wound of the hip is not serious , but neumona does not paint very well .
it writes down them with the name of its plates .
i do not want to know nothing but .
good luck .
the handle !
the handle !
please !
later it arrives until berney , on foot .
it could not know if my woman had received the letter , so every day it was going to wait for it to the shutdown of the group .
with the silver of the sale we bought this farm .
but moved away that we found .
they call the aim of the world .
good bye
he is peculiar , became a hollow in the line of the life !
it is normal .
mori ' ... in bingo twilight like your fianc .
if sometimes you find to jean desrochelles with life
hzmelo to know .
you know where to find me .
it happens ! as if you were in your house , christmas it enters by the chimney if queres !
for the mathilde young lady
very well .
i occur it later .
i who you , would wake up it .
that it happens ?
this alive one !
mathilde does not move , happens what happens , does not move ...
i go for there .
germain pire
that idiot i am !
pa without equal and but fast which a gale .
this vivito and fishtailing , but does not remember anything .
its amnesia is total .
it has had to return to learn to read and to write .
the psychiatrists who treat it from the 17 do not have many hopes .
but eye ! everybody knows that ... ... there are so many amnesias , as amnesic .
where this ?
orphan for the second time .
he finishes losing his adoptive mother .
pierre marie , not if it knows mr. piere ?
single its reputation .
enchanted .
mathilde i say to you that until does not see it , i will not believe it .
with its own eyes !
when jean desrochelles was born , its mother tapeworm 40 years and nontapeworm children .
when gendarmes came by .... ... to fortify the front
if .
key in a depression .
a day received the visit of a companion of its son , so ...
chardolot !
chardolot ! ... unfortunately one was jean .
i reach a projectile to him , and took to several hours murto .
i must also say to him ... it can be that but the young one of the condemned has usurped the identity of jean .
interchanging its plates .
i believe that it lost the judgment the day that called it of the hospital in order to say to him that his son was there .
this sleepy .
i leave them single .
good morning !
who you are ?
your small mother .
i am your breast !
i have carried out the official investigation and mrs. desrochelles passed away two months ago .
the upsetting a truck when having an argument with a retailer , and one is not an invention . we already know it !
nonwoman ...
one does not put you thus .
the lady did not suffer , died in the act .
i do not cry for that reason .
i am an idiot .
i did not believe to you small .
perdname !
it must it have known .
what it would denominate late but , the expedition of millie ; the sun , the sky and all the nature , were of their part .
making gallic of its femineidad , adjustment the best thing than could .
of target , the color of the purity .
pinto the lips for the occasion ,
the delineated eyebrows and nothing of rimel that extended the eyelashes .
wise person which would happen if it lost the composure .
we have announced him its visit .
we said that a young person to him , to which it has wanted much , it was going to come to see it .
i ask its name .
it seemed to him very pretty .
the delay in the garden .
it hurts to you when you walk ?
queres to see what i am doing ?
when it finishes lets see it to you .
because you cry ?
and mathilde remained raised , supported in the endorsement of the chair , with the hands on its skirt and i watch it .
under the harmony that surrounded them , under the light of the garden ,
mathilde i watch it , i watch it .... ...
i watch it .
originally translated and subtitled by xele . rushdie@ voila . fr .
then google translated by translate . pl from taxexile
