to have and to hold .
for when they walk .
we may , question ourselves at , moments such as these , did we make the right decision to settle here ?
we are grateful for the time we have been given
what manner of spectacle has attracted your attention so splendidly ,
i had to carry it in my pocket to help me teach ?
who came upon this ?
claude , did you know this ?
no mr. walker !
i inspected it carefully
it had a twisted back and much was burn wounds .
i see ...
it was murdered !
but who was the culprit ?
who has done this hiddeous act ?
those we don' t speak off killed her .
there it is ...
why would such a notion , come into your mind ?
they are meat eaters .
with large claws
children , those we don' t speak off , have not breached our borders for many years .
we do not go into their woods , they do not come into our village .
it is a truce .
we do not threaten them
why would they do this ?
we thought not to , overlook the flight of the birds .
we didn' t have last year , and i for one missed it desperately
and i know your wife , missed the children dressed in feathers , and such .
i am fond of it .
i do not have a say in this matter .
august nicholson is chair , of today s meeting .
there is a young man who has requested a word with the elders .
well , do have him come forward .
hello , lucius .
my mother is unaware of the reason , for my visit today .
she did not give her consent , or consult me in any form .
the passing of little daniel nicholson , from illness , handed a very offensive weight on my thoughts .
i ask permission , to cross into the forbidden woods ,
and travel to the nearest town .
i will gather new medicines . and i will return .
with regards to those we don' t speak off .
i am certain they will let me pass .
creatures can , sense emotion and fear .
they will see i am pure of intention , and not afraid .
the end .
what goes on in that head of yours ?
say something , lucius !
if they had cornered us in the tower , then i promise to stay with them .
do you ever think of the towns , have you ?
the towns ?
what for ?
a wicked place is where wicked people live .
that' s all .
thank you lucius .
you' re a good friend
i do hope no one saw you !
what we seem to have amongst us is , a predator of some type .
most likely a coyote , or a wolf .
it' s manner of killing , and removing the fur , but ,
leaving the flesh torn , may be a sign that this animal , suffers from madness .
and for the next fortnight , we should be vigilant , for sightings of this coyote .
keep careful watch , over our little ones , as they play on the hills .
as for the other notion .
we do not believe , our boundary has been breached .
those we don' t speak off , are much larger creatures than coyotes .
we would know if they had been here .
as frightful , it' s good news there' s a coyote , is it not papa ?
do not feel worried , kitty .
you' re not troubled ?
i' m certain it will all end soon .
can we think of other matters then ?
it would be a relieve .
i' m in love .
i' d like your permission to marry papa !
there' s a proper manner , the way things are supposed to happen .
such as the boy would now all be standing next to you ,
and while i' m on such as this , where is the boy in all this .
i haven' t spoken to him as of yet .
the young man is unaware of your intentions
he has a quiet way .
i was going to talk with him papa , but not without your blessing .
i won' t talk with him without your blessing !
it' s lucius hunt .
lucius ?
you think badly of him ?
no .
i haven' t been thinking on him this way
the other boys , papa , he doesn' t joke , or bounce about .
no he certainly does not .
so i have your blessings then ?
look , do me one favour , do not tell anyone else about your burstings , until you have spoken with the young man !
good afternoon , lucius .
i wanted , to tell you something .
i love you , lucius .
i love you !
like the day is long !
i love you more than the sun and the moon together , and if you feel the same way , then we should not hide it any longer .
it' s a gift , loving !
we should be thankful !
we should belt it out , with all the bless in our love .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you .
baby sleep .
gently sleep .
life is long and love is deep .
time will be .
sweet for thee .
all the world to see .
time to look about and know .
though the shadows come and weep .
how the breeze stirs the trees .
how blossoms blow .
i often wondered if you and my son bonded because neither of you is fond of speaking .
you are very kind .
you must pardon my manners , i haven' t slept in many nights .
you know you' re doing great , jameson
just a few more moments !
gather your bravery !
do not jostle about so , you' re ruining my shirt !
it made a sound i can hear a sound !
maybe i can leave before they attack !
have courage man !
it is a wilds tale , it isn' t true !
do not bend it , just use yourself !
even a dog can smell you .
pardon me , mr. nelson ?
you may run from sorrow as we have , sorrow will find you !
it could smell you !
i didn' t know you could run here do fast !
we are still from running this thing , right ?
noah has to be punished , he wept little justin with a stick again !
noah percy !
stop this fussing right this moment !
you' re in trouble , usual !
i don' t hit any !
they are going to place you in the quiet room !
i want to talk to the elderly' s
why don' t we strike a deal ?
yeah , got one idea ?
it would be prudent to keep our deal a secret !
can you do that ?
i could cherish mouth !
you needn' t go to the quiet room , if you take an oath , to never strike any person again !
no hitting !
no hitting !
no hitting !
it' s your struck !
we had now return right away .
hm , what shall we do with our stolen time ?
shall we have a quick race ?
yes !
up the hill to the resting rock !
no cheating !
what a deeply , scandalous thing to say !
i insist you take that back !
is that the school bell ?
you cheater !
i know , i' m sorry !
my sister cried a lot .
do you wonder how i recognized you ?
some people , there is a handful mind , you give of the tiniest colour
it' s faint ,
like a haze ,
it is the only thing i ever see in the darkness .
papa has it too .
do you wanna know what your colour is ?
well i don' t want to tell you , it' s not like you have to speak of such things , you shouldn' t have even ask .
you run like a boy .
thank you .
i know why you denied my sister , when i was younger , you used to hold my world when i walked ,
and suddenly you stopped .
one day i even tripped , in your presence , and nearly fell .
i was faking of course , but still you did not hold me .
sometimes we don' t do things we want to do , so that others won' t know we want to do that .
what is it ?
berries what a splendid present !
be cautious , you' re holding the bad colour !
this colour attracts those we don' t speak of , we must burry it .
you had not to pick that colour berry anymore !
you better dis room his pocket !
what' s wrong ?
your breathing has changed !
i have never set eyes on these before
you do not pick that now !
where did you find this ?
today at resting rock ,
noah percy handed ivy walker , berries of the bad colour .
i' ve asked where did he found those berries , for they were not like any others i have seen
he pointed to jar in our resting rock .
it is my believe that noah percy has entered the woods ,
and has done so on many occasions .
it is also my believe , that because of his innocence , those creatures who reside in the woods , did not harm him .
this strength is my feeling , that they will let me pass , if they sense i' m not a threat .
we shall speak of the town , just this once ,
and we shall never speak of it again .
your father had left for the market on a tuesday , at 9 : 15 in the morning .
he was found robbed , and naked , in the filthy river , two days later .
why do you tell me this story ?
so you will know the nature of what you desire .
i do not desire that !
my intentions are true to my word ,
i think of nothing but the people of this village .
forgive me ,
i' m but scared for my only son' s life .
i' m not the one with secrets .
what is your meaning ?
there are secrets in every corner of this village ,
you don' t feel it , you don' t see it .
that is form my own well being
so the evil things from my past , are kept close enough forgotten
forgetting would be to let them be born again , in another form .
my mind is still finished .
no !
perhaps we should speak with edward walker together , he may be
he has too
he hides his feelings for you .
some times we don' t do things yet others know we want to do things , so , we don' t do them .
what nonsense are you saying ?
you needn' t worry , nothing will happen to me .
you remind me of a cult , sometimes .
what makes you think he has feelings for me ?
he never touches you .
there is no escape .
o , hello .
i was just playing a game with noah .
the rascal has gotten to hide in my house again .
houses are against the rules !
he knows that !
are you alright ?
we are attending to the children tonight .
kitty and i.
i should be with her .
be well !
i heard my parents speaking of you .
i know of your request to the town .
i think it is noble , but i do not think it is right .
are you not angry you have no sight ?
i see the world in a sheer light . just not as you see it .
what of noah then ?
what if there were medicines for noah , that could help him be still and tolerant .
really , stop speaking of this , it' s putting knobs in my stomach .
kitty , is to be married .
she' s found love .
again .
with christoph crane .
you know he won' t sit back in his chair , for fear of setting wrinkles on his shirts ,
but , he does have a gentleman ring way about him .
and he does care for my sister .
can you believe ?
i think kitty is blessed then ,
i am blessed as well .
my older sister is now spoken for ,
i' m now free to receive interest from anyone ,
you might have interest ?
have you seen noah ?
lucius ?
lucius .
hurry to the church .
close the door !
noah , come on inside !
everyone inside !
just close the door !
lucius is outside walking !
they are coming !
he is inside safe somewhere .
please close the door !
he' il come back to make sure we' re safe .
ivy , ivy , please ?
no !
don' t let them in !
by the markings we find this morning , on our homes .
i feel they were warning us , they acted as if , threatened .
creatures have never attacked us without reason .
does anyone here , know of a reason ?
why these events may have occurred ?
who has written this note ?
please read so that all may hear ,
i have brought this burden upon us ,
on the day before last , i crossed the forbidden line into covington woods .
and was witnessed there by those we don' t speak of .
i' m deeply sorry ,
i have shamed myself and my family ,
i pray that my actions , will cause no further pain .
deepest sorrow , lucius hunt .
do not threat .
you are a fear to us , in a way that i shall never know .
we are grateful ,
for the time we have endured .
i had an elder sister !
ms. clark , you have been keeping secrets !
kitty reminds me of her so .
what manner of a person was she !
so i see .
and we fought endlessly .
may i ask her name ?
why did she not come to covington woods ?
my sister did not live passed her 23rd birthday .
a group of men took her life , on the way by our home .
please , rise .
she is not gonna squeeze my shirt like that , is she ?
many blessings on this most joyous day .
it was a beautiful ceremony , was it not ?
glorious .
i saw your hand move to your eyes , and remove the mud itch .
it must have been dust of some matter
father !
mr. walker , mr. walker !
they' re in the village .
they left more warnings .
they wish us to leave .
that cannot be .
one saw us , it ran of into the darkness .
you are certain ?
you boys stay close to ivy here , she' il tell you some funny stories and have you laughing some more .
we will go together .
the livestock has been taken , and skinned .
the hides and feathers are missing .
there are marks on the door , where it was opened .
the marks are lies , coyotes cannot reach that height .
the elders are going to have an inquiry tomorrow .
each member of the village is to be questioned about you .
to see how the border was breached .
yes .
it is cold outside .
you ought to go in .
why are you on this porch ?
is it not safe ?
there are other porches .
do you find me too much of a town boy ?
i do want to do boy things .
like that game the boys play when they stamp .
they put their backs to the woods , and see how long they can wait , before getting scared .
so exiting .
i understand you hold the record .
it will never be broken , they say .
it' s just children s games .
how is it you' re brave and all the rest of us shake in our boots ?
i don' t know more about that , only i used to be doing it .
how did you know i was here ?
i saw you in the window ,
no , i won' t tell you your colour .
stop asking .
when you' re married , will you dance with me ?
i find dancing very agreeable .
why can you not say what is in your head ?
why can you not stop saying what is in yours ?
why must you lead , when i want to lead ?
if i want to dance ,
i will ask you to dance .
if i want to speak ,
i will open my mouth to speak .
i don' t think they will ever blame me , to speak frank .
why ?
what ...
good is it to tell you , what i thought about for a week ,
what good would it do , for you to know that ,
i don' t think clearly , or do my work properly ?
what aim can rise in my telling you , the only time i' m guilty or selfish too ,
is when i think of you in harm .
and that is why i am on this porch ,
ivy walker .
i fear for your safety , before all others .
and yes ,
i will dance with you on our wedding night ,
i have been to the storage hut twice , to fetch food prior to the wedding ceremony .
and the livestock was untouched at that time ?
yes mrs. hunt , all is as it should be .
thank you , beatrice .
i beg your pardon , is it true , about lucius and ivy ?
there are whispers all over the village .
we were informed earlier this morning of their intentions .
it is amazing to witness that two people in love would unit .
it follows no rules .
kitty ,
i wanted to speak with you first ,
i do not want you to feel pain , in any fashion .
you are my cherished one .
if you were to feel badly about lucius ,
i would not have it .
one love to sacrifice another love , is not right .
there is nothing you could do , that would sacrifice my love for you .
all my cherished one is well .
god bless you on your life together .
