wait .
fire !
forward .
poor bastards .
they didn' t stand a chance .
my dear gilda ... yesterday , in an ambush behind the enemy lines ...
i killed a young nationalist soldier .
how inadequate those words seem .
he was clutching a locket when he died ... with a photograph of a young woman .
i suppose , as i write this , she' s waiting for news of him ... hoping against hope he is safe .
dearest gilda ... still no word from you , which breaks my heart .
i know that to you all wars are useless ... and for us to risk our lives is a betrayal ... of ourselves and of you .
but my country' s a part of me .
and if i was not here , i would be betraying myself ... and even more , my brother .
believe me ... my being here does not mean i love you any less .
forgive me if you can ... and know that i think of you all the time .
i wonder if you are writing to either of us .
but i do beg you , at least , to write to guy .
his unit is at teruel ... where the fighting is especially bitter ... and made worse by the intense cold .
i can' t stay .
we' re operating in a few moments .
i know .
we treated men from your unit a few days ago .
that' s how i knew you were here .
i asked about you .
they said you have no nerves .
you' re always the quiet one in the center of the storm .
if i am , it' s because i' m too tired to be frightened .
when do you finish your shift ?
we never know .
where are you tonight ?
not far from here .
it' s an old tannery .
i know it .
if i can , i' il come .
you must be dead on your feet .
no .
i have a secret weapon .
it' s strong enough to help you forget what you' ve seen during the day .
have you heard from her ?
i' ve had other letters , but none from her .
and you ?
no .
why won' t she write ?
she loves you more than she' il ever admit .
and one day you' il be together again , i know it .
these last few days , i' ve been asking myself if any of this is worth it .
perhaps she was right .
the world should be left to look after itself .
you know you don' t believe that .
but what are we achieving ?
with the germans and the ltalians on their side , it' s only a matter of time .
in that time , maybe the rest of the world will begin to realize what' s happening .
you were always the sensible one .
was l ?
not in my choice of men , remember ?
we should try to sleep .
you know , gilda once said we two should have a child .
you know she and i were lovers ?
i knew underneath .
i wanted to tell you , but she always said you were too british .
she was probably right .
those were the happiest times of my life ... the three of us together .
and you and i came here .
we had no choice .
how can i be so tired ... and still feel jealous ?
i was jealous of you all the time .
she' d be pleased .
everything needs her blessing .
here' s your lift .
my doctor friend .
he' s convinced i' m some kind of saint because i never go with anyone .
he was so relieved when i said i wanted to come and see you .
he insisted on giving me a lift himself .
i finally got rid of my halo .
there is no second sight .
we grope towards our future blind .
it' s kinder that way .
on the morning of her final day , she came to her death clear eyed ... brave , unknowing .
and when the snow melts , spring has come .
there is an end to war .
one small flower ... blessed , unique ... will flower no more .
gilda ...
i have to tell you that our dear friend is dead .
i saw her just before it happened .
she was so beautiful ... and had become so wise .
far stronger than me .
a few months later , as the forces of the republic began to disintegrate ...
i crossed back into france with the remnants of my unit .
all our efforts had come to nothing .
the war in spain was lost .
i am speaking to you from the cabinet room ... at 10 downing street .
this morning , the british ambassador in berlin ... handed the german government a final note ... stating that unless we heard from them by 1 1 : 00 ... that they were prepared at once to withdraw their troops from poland ... a state of war would exist between us .
i have to tell you now ... that no such undertaking has been received ... and that consequently ... this country is at war with germany .
the war against the fascists in spain was only a rehearsal .
the greater struggle was about to begin .
less than a year later ...
poland , norway , holland , belgium , and france were overrun ... and the germans entered paris .
i doubted i would ever see her again .
my war was in the field of intelligence .
and early in 1944 ...
i was sent to establish links with resistance fighters ... based in the countryside near la manche .
in the late spring , i was transferred to paris .
six long years had passed since i was last there .
my cover was as an official working for a firm manufacturing rolling stock ... for the hard pressed french railways .
and some time after i arrived , i was waiting for a rendezvous .
did she see me ?
i wasn' t sure .
but after the initial shock , how could i be surprised ?
gilda didn' t see the world as others did .
she was looking after herself ... making sure she could live in the style she was accustomed to .
bravo .
stop !
three mornings i sat across the road waiting for you .
you mustn' t come again .
he could come here at any time , and everyone watches .
they' il have seen you come into the building ... the patron and his wife from the cafe .
yeah , well , they don' t think much of you there .
of course not .
and you don' t care ?
did i ever care what people thought of me ?
i' d like to believe that once you cared what i thought .
why , gilda ?
why this ?
i never much liked my own company , you know that .
yeah , but with one of them ?
it' s just a game .
not now .
i' m glad you' re alive .
you know about mia ?
she loved you , you know ?
as much as i did .
you should go .
we could leave paris .
make our way to the coast .
i have the papers .
don' t be absurd .
are you in love with him ?
this german ?
or is it just a convenience ?
a business arrangement , like with max ?
for the duration of the exhibition ?
the duration of the war ?
go out the back way .
when we were making love just then , you felt it as strongly as i did .
yes .
our bodies were always good together .
forget about me , guy ... as i have you .
you' re out of my life now .
hello , sir .
when they told me you' d been sitting at a cafe three mornings in a row ...
i didn' t believe them .
now i find it' s because you were waiting to see an old girlfriend .
a girlfriend who happens to be hobnobbing with a german officer .
do you realize the risk you' re taking ?
the risk you' re taking with all of us here ?
you' re lucky you didn' t wake up with your throat cut .
did you know she was involved with a german ?
yes , sir .
and yet you still went to see her ?
i' ve known her a long time .
i' ve a good mind to have london pull you out .
they won' t have it , because there' s no one with your credentials ... can come in at this short notice .
i won' t be seeing her again .
lf you do , i' il kill you myself .
you' re so beautiful .
it was the right size , yes ?
i feel very special .
one day , i will get you stockings .
when the war is over .
when the war is over .
i want to speak your language .
you promised you' d teach me .
but we have our own private language , you and l .
and when the allies win the war ... we' il all be speaking english in our sleep .
to think , if i had been at cambridge one year later ... we might have met then .
here we go again .
you seem a little far away tonight .
i' m here .
i wonder who' s getting it tonight .
you were good at the meeting .
you got it just right .
i' m sorry i followed you that day .
no , you had every reason .
i know what it' s like to love someone .
thank you .
why do you let them insult you ?
if our roles were reversed and this was berlin ... you' d find yourself doing the same .
and expect to be punished .
i' m angry because
i don' t want anything to spoil tonight of all nights .
why tonight ?
because ....
because it' s your birthday .
you' ve always refused to tell me , my darling .
and i know it' s a woman' s prerogative ... but i wanted to know so we could celebrate .
forgive me , i checked your papers .
my puppet , you' re upset ?
but why ?
thirty three .
i thought 28 at most .
open it .
please ?
so we' re on standby .
go down to the lavatories and put on the clothes there ...
my love .
they picked up the man you were meeting , bisquet .
how did you
there' s a bicycle outside .
you have about two minutes .
remember cambridge ?
the next morning ?
how i dressed like a boy ?
gilda .
i had no idea it would be you .
give me 30 seconds .
what happened ?
bisquet was picked up last night .
we just found out .
who tipped you off ?
the woman i went to see .
this is a surprise .
i thought you were on alert .
we' ve been stood down .
there' s a storm in the channel .
no invasion in this weather .
how was your day ?
puzzling .
frustrating .
but not anymore .
i was elated .
in some way , somehow , she was on our side .
d day .
for a few days i was looked after by the priest .
and then i was flown back to hospital in england .
i still had no clear idea of gilda' s involvement in the resistance .
all i knew was that in spite of everything ... when the war was over , we would be together again ... as mia had foretold .
the major will see you now , sir .
just wait here for a moment , please .
long time , guy .
it is , sir .
the first contact didn' t come from our side .
she approached us .
in fact , it was more than a year before i discovered who she was .
when i realized it was gilda ...
i was as surprised as i' m sure you were .
although i suppose you knew her better than i ever did .
her first lover worked in stulpnagel' s offices .
she copied documents from his briefcase with a miniature camera .
she' s good with cameras .
then passed them on through her contact in a beauty salon .
the intelligence officer she' s with now is much more circumspect .
but one tip off she gave us ... saved an entire escape line from infiltration .
and when you went to see her , you were putting all that at risk .
why didn' t she tell me ?
you know why .
if you were caught and tortured ....
it wasn' t just for your own good .
paris is in chaos .
the resistance is trying to liberate the city themselves ... and there' s no possible justification for sending you back there .
but she is very resourceful , as we both know .
i wouldn' t worry about her too much .
it' s not the germans i' m worried about .
of course , if you were to go of your own accord ...
i wouldn' t do anything to stop you .
you got my message ?
i' m not coming with you .
have you seen the people out there ?
i' il be all right if i stay here .
when the allies come
why will you not come with me ?
i can take you to germany .
i know it won' t be easy , but at least you' il be safe .
i don' t love you , frans .
oh , god !
no !
well , my love , i' m trying to make sense of things ... of how i was , and how i am now .
well , my love , i' m trying to make sense of things ... of how i was , and how i am now .
i have always believed our first duty is to ourselves ... to live life to the full .
but i have also been haunted by another conviction ... that everything is preordained , lying in wait ... and time is running out .
i seem to have charged through my life in a kind of panic .
and looking back ...
i feel i have achieved little of worth beyond our friendship : yours and mine , and mia' s .
then one day i woke ... and found i had lost the two people i cared for most .
only then did i begin to realize that we cannot live alone , aloof from the world ... and that to believe we cannot fight against fate is an act of surrender .
you were right when you said that once i cared for your opinion of me ... but wrong in thinking i ever stopped caring .
i love you .
