i need help now !
please , you have to help us .
no , no , it isn' t enough time .
what the hell' s the matter with you people ?
this is an emergency !
it' s too late .
it' s too late .
it' s coming !
oh , god .
what' s happening to me ?
i' m sorry !
no !
no , don' t leave me , please !
are you all right ?
yeah , what was that ?
i don' t know .
i think it came from evans field .
oh , my god .
lana , wait .
lana !
smallville saison 4 episode 20 " ageless
corrections et synchro par kiff
merci malone www . forom . com
last time i checked , babies don' t just fall out of the sky , mr .
kent .
it left a 30 foot crater , sheriff .
how else would you explain it ?
well , i can' t. that' s why we' re conducting a little something called an investigation .
what' s gonna happen to the baby now , sheriff ?
well , he' il be placed with child services until we can find a home for him .
you did good for a change , mr .
kent .
the little critter wouldn' t be alive if not for you .
dad , this baby' s parents ...
i don' t think they' re from around here .
what do you mean ?
you think the baby' s ... the baby' s not from earth ?
we found him in a crater , just like you and mom found me .
yeah , but when we found you , we also found a spaceship .
the truth is , we don' t know what happened on that field .
hi .
hi .
i' ve tried everything , but he won' t stop .
is he okay ?
if you can believe it , all his crying is a good sign .
the doctor said he' s perfectly healthy .
i' m gonna go talk to the nurses , find out if we can get some more formula .
clark , you take over .
me ?
yeah .
well , i , lana ...
i don' t really ...
wow ,
looks like someone has the magic touch .
i' il be right back .
uh ... when does child services come and take him ?
they' re not .
they don' t have room for him yet , so he' s going to stay in the hospital until they do .
well , he can' t stay in the hospital .
i mean , he ... maybe he can come stay with us .
until they find room for him .
i found an arrowhead in evans field once , but never a baby in a crater .
it' s really weird .
but what' s even weirder is the way clark is with him .
let me guess ... he' s completely baby phobic .
actually , exactly the opposite .
you should see the look in his eyes when he' s holding that baby .
it' s like he' s completely at ease , not to mention he' s a natural born baby burper .
i' ve got the spit up stains to prove it .
sorry i' m late .
i was up all night with the crying machine and every time i put him down , he starts up again .
well , if you need any help , i could come over tonight .
well , that would be great .
could you pick up some formula on the way ?
sure .
how are youon diapers ?
the diapers ... pretty good .
okay , before you guys start picking out the schools ... for the little tyke , you might wanna hear this .
i had my contact at emergency services run a check of all the 911 calls made around the time that you found the baby .
this one kinda stuck out .
what the hell' s the matter with you people ?
it' s an emergency !
it' s too late !
it' s coming !
it' s coming !
aah !
she sounds so scared .
no !
no , don' t leave me , please !
did he just leave her there ?
if he did , he might still be alive .
from the sounds of this , the mother wasn' t as lucky .
she didn' t even get to see her own baby .
but the baby survived .
how is that possible ?
can you trace this call back to the cell phone ?
i can try .
if this is the father , he might have some answers for us .
genevieve .
you know , i' m not accustomed to being summoned like a lapdog .
don' t be silly , lionel .
i' d never allow you on my lap .
so , uh , why am i here , if not for the , uh , pleasure of your company ?
it' s time to repay old debts , lionel .
arranging your release from maximum security prison was not an easy task .
and i have yet to receive even a hint of gratitude .
well , i' ve been racking my brain trying to write a thank you note , but , uh , words could never express the way i feel .
your son just returned from china with a lost element .
and i would like you to retrieve it for me .
no , no , you have the wrong son in mind .
it was jason who brought the stone back home .
jason' s incapable of such subterfuge .
unfortunately , he inherited his intelligence from my husband' s side of the family .
yeah , i never thought you married well .
lex , on the other hand , received his genes from a far more cunning source .
you know , there were other treasure seekers in china , genevieve .
ha .
a farmboy , an ex cheerleader , and lex luthor .
who do you think ended up with the prize ?
well , my son hasn' t been listening to me for years .
what do you want me to do , give him a good spanking ?
you know , lionel ,
i don' t think either one of us want me to go after lex myself .
you be careful , genevieve .
i regard a threat to any luthor as a threat to me .
interpret it any way you like .
i want that stone ,
lionel .
what' s the matter ?
what' s the matter , little guy ?
is your milk too cold ?
huh ?
here , try this .
try this , try this , try this .
huh ?
yeah ?
there you go .
there you go .
clark , i could easily get chelsea to cover for me at the talon .
you don' t have to stay home .
that' s okay .
i want to stay with him .
okay .
it kind of changes your perspective when you have someone who depends on you for everything .
yeah .
and i mean everything .
could you hand mea diaper ?
here you go .
well , listen , you have my number at the talon , and your dad' s out in the barn if you need him .
okay .
okay ?
have fun .
yeah .
okay .
clark kent , changing diapers like a pro .
you know , all this baby stuff is easier than people say .
i think i pretty much got it under control .
oh ...
nice aim , little guy .
clark , we can' t keep calling him " little guy .
they' re gonna make fun of him when he gets to high school .
well , um ... we found him in evans field .
why don' t we call him evan ?
i think he likes it .
hello , evan .
this is clark , and i' m lana .
and we think that you' re the most beautiful baby ever .
you know , lana , maybe weshould take a step back .
step back from what ?
well , maybe we shouldn' t get so attached .
i mean , if his father' s still alive ... then he never should' ve left him in that field .
lana , we don' t know what happened .
he could' ve gone for help .
he could be looking for evan right now .
or maybe he isn' t.
maybe evan is an orphan , just like we were .
clark , things like this don' t just happen .
there' s a reason he survived and that someone like you found him .
we found him .
evan ?
clark , what' s happening ?
clark , wha ...
my god .
what are you doing , son ? an exciting new venture , something worthy of a captain of industry ?
i' m simply continuing where you left off , dad .
i , uh , can' t talk now .
well , we better talk .
genevieve teague thinks you have the missing element .
the one from china .
come on , dad .
you' ve raised me to be smarter than that .
why use genevieve teague as a threat ?
why not just come out and ask for it yourself ?
i' m here as a father who' s concerned about the safety of his son .
she had bridgette crosby murdered because of one of those elements .
you think she' d hesitate to do the same to you ?
i don' t have it .
and even if i did , i' d never trust you .
lex ... we haven' t a lot of time left to spend together .
you can go on for the rest of your life being mistrustful of me , or you can accept me as your father who loves you .
she' s dangerous , lex .
she ... watch your back , son .
i always do .
where is evan now ?
in the loft with lana .
and , mom , i' ve never seen anything like it .
last night , he was just a baby .
his growth spurt was really amazing .
and frightening .
evan needs to be seen by a doctor .
we have to take him back to the hospital .
what are we gonna tell the doctors ... he' s some second generation meteor freak ?
he' il either wind up in belle reve or a laboratory for the rest of his life .
i don' t know , clark , but we owe it to him to do something .
i was thinking we' d take him to someone who has experience in the effects of meteor rock .
clark ,
i realize that lex has helped us in the past , but there' s no way that i' m about to put this young man' s life in his hands .
if i were in trouble , and lex was the only one who could help , what would you do ?
you must be very kind to him , to teach him all he needs to know in rabbit land .
for he is going to live with us forever and ever .
you know how to read ?
i' ve read all of clark' s books .
but this is my favorite .
i also liked the encyclopedia .
the encyclopedia , huh ?
that' s a pretty long book .
i know .
i stopped on " w.
windmills .
did you know they were invented in persia ?
why are you looking at me like that ?
um ... you are a very , very special boy , evan .
i think that you are the most special little boy that i have ever met .
really ?
yeah .
and you' re really lucky , because there are so many more books for you to read and so many places for you to see .
like what ?
like a real windmill .
and when you stand up on top of it , the whole world stretches out around you .
can we go right now ?
where are you going ?
dad !
mom' s taking me to see a real windmill .
wanna come ?
um ... evan ...
listen ... we' re not your real parents .
everyone' s supposed to have a mother and father .
and they' re supposed to love each other very much , just like you and lana .
clark and i care about you a lot , evan .
that' s what matters .
if you' re not my mom and dad , where are they ?
we don' t know , but ... wherever they are ,
i' m sure they love you very much .
you wanna go for a ride in the truck ?
are we going to the windmill ?
uh ... we will , but first , i want to take you to meet a friend of mine .
i hope i' ve done the right thing .
clark , he looks really scared .
i just hope it' il be over soon .
lex has his top scientists trying to figure out what' s happening .
and they' ve already come up with some intriguing discoveries .
lex , is he gonna be all right ?
tell us what' s happening .
well , the results are only preliminary , but ... the data indicates that evan' s body is storing energy ,
like a battery charging .
charging for what ?
the theory we' re working on is that once enough energy is stored , it' s expended to fuel a burst of rapid cell division .
that' s how he was able to go from a baby to a 7 year old in one day .
is there any way to stop it ?
my team believes a bone marrow transplant might slow the growth and bring his metabolism back to normal .
can we use my bone marrow ?
we' re willing to do anything to help .
well , it' s not that simple .
his genetic makeup is highly unusual .
for this to work , we' il need an exact match with a living donor , which means a biological parent .
well , we think his mother died when he was born .
we' re still trying to find his father .
what' s going to happen to evan if we can' t ?
evan !
evan .
unbelievable .
what' s wrong with me ?
prep the level 3 facility .
i want him transferred immediately .
no .
you' re not taking him anywhere .
clark , we need to isolate him while we run more tests .
i just want to go home .
lex , he' s just a boy .
we understand you' re trying to help , and we appreciate it .
he' s been through enough .
we' re taking him home .
i' m dying , aren' t i ?
evan , don' t say that .
i i read the average
life span of a man is 74 years .
i' ve aged from a newborn to a teenager in 48 hours .
do the math .
evan , we' re not gonna give up .
lex has got his team working on a cure right now .
and if we can find your father ... do you really think they' re gonna find a cure for me overnight ?
it' s like my life was just some sort of trick that was played on me .
all that stuff i read in the books that i thought i was gonna see ...
i' m not ...
am i ?
don' t talk like that , all right ?
we just have to keep trying .
it' s not fair .
this whole thing ... it' s just not fair !
clark , we have to do something .
we can' t just let this happen to him .
would you go see if he' s okay ?
i need to find his father .
so our friendly phone company just got friendlier .
i was able to trace the 911 call back to a cell phone .
his mother was karen gallagher .
she was a senior here .
i remember hearing about her .
was she wall of weird material ?
i got a couple blips on the radar when i heard that she ... had a knack for shorting monitors when ever she walked into the computer lab , but i had no idea that super fast pregnancy powers was part of the equation .
how long was she pregnant for ?
well , last weekend , christina varrano had a party at her house , and karen apparently went nc 17 with some guy in the bedroom .
christina has no idea who the guy was .
so she got pregnant and delivered a baby a week later ?
we need to find evan' s father .
okay .
well , christina used e vite to send out all her invitations .
i guess ours got lost in the electronic mail .
let' s just check all the rsvp sand try to track him down .
excuse me .
does tanner sutherland work here ?
yeah , he' s over there .
thank you .
tanner ?
leave your car around back , i' il get to it .
hey , were you at christina varrano' s party last week ?
uh , i don' t remember .
i think i was working .
so you didn' t hook up with karen gallagher ?
what do you want ?
who the hell are you ?
i' m the guy who found your son ,
laying in the middle of a field .
look , dude , i don' t have a son , and ...
i don' t know what you' re talking about , all right ?
i got work to do .
i' m not going to let you walk away from this .
you have a responsibility .
get off me , man .
what' s your problem ?
my problem is your son needs your help .
now tell me how he got on that field .
i got with this girl at a party .
the next day , she calls me up , crying , saying she' s ... she' s pregnant .
i go over , and her stomach ... it was already ...
a week later , we were in my car , we' re speeding to the hospital and she' s screaming , " it' s coming !
and she starts glowing .
and then the car it went up like a freakin ' a bomb .
that wasn' t a baby .
it was some kind of monster .
he' s a human being , tanner , and he' s your son .
he' s aging rapidly .
he needs your help .
he needs a bone marrow transplant .
you' re the only one who can help him .
what ?
no .
look , i can' t deal with this .
i' m sorry .
i can' t.
how could someone do that to their own son ?
clark , being a father is an enormous responsibility .
the kid is just too young to handle it .
he' s evan' s only hope , and evan' s going to die if we can' t convince him to help .
i know that , son , and we' re gonna figure it out .
but what' s more important right now is what are we gonna tell evan ?
maybe it' s best i don' t even tell him i found his father .
he' s gonna take it pretty hard .
son , an orphaned child has every right to know about his origins .
you should know that better than anybody .
i' il tell you what ...
i' il talk to him , okay ?
i mean , i do have a little experience in that department .
thanks , dad , but i think i should tell him .
tell him what ?
did you find my father ?
clark , where is he ?
he works downtown ... at massey' s auto garage .
his name' s tanner sutherland .
when can i see him ?
look , evan , um , sometimes , when you meet your biological father , it can be painful .
why ?
i don' t understand .
they don' t always live up to your expectations , evan .
trust me , i know .
but i want to see him .
evan , we' re just trying to protect you .
you can' t protect me .
no one can .
just calm down , okay ?
stop telling me what to do , clark .
you' re not my father .
evan !
clark .
is there any possibility of an error ?
we' ve run the projections three times .
lex ,
i found evan' s father .
where is he ?
he' s here in smallville , but he doesn' t want to help .
i' ve just been informed that evan' s cell division is increasing exponentially , along with the energy he expels when he ages .
we have only a few hours to stabilize evan .
according to the projections , evan is building towards a massive chronological event .
you' re saying evan' s about to die ?
it' s a lot worse than that .
the next time evan ages , he' il release enough energy to kill himself and anyone else at hand .
good night .
we' re closed .
come back tomorrow .
are you deaf ?
what are you staring at ?
my father .
don' t call me that .
i' m not your dad .
yes , you are .
why won' t you admit it ?
you stay the hell away from me .
please , dad .
just help me .
i' m your son .
no , you' re not !
you' re some kind of freak !
dad ?
dad ?
dad .
oh , my god what have i done ?
okay , dad , call me if you find him .
what happened ?
evan' s gone .
he must' ve snuck out .
my parents are looking for him , and lana' s at the farm in case he comes back .
well , let' s make sure we can help him when he turns up .
lex .
he' s dead .
evan .
clark , we needed a living donor to stop evan from aging again .
there' s gotta be something else we can do to help him .
there is .
we need to track him down and seal him in a containment chamber under luthorcorp .
no .
lex ... it' s the only way to contain the blast from his final change .
lex , i' m not gonna let him just die .
nothing can stop that from happening now , clark .
look , i' m sorry , but if we don' t isolate evan , a lot of innocent people are going to be killed .
he hasn' t come back , mr .
kent .
let me know if you find him .
ok .
evan , i have been worried sick about you .
we' ve been looking for you all night .
are you okay ?
i don' t know .
i did something bad .
evan , tell me what happened .
it was an accident ... a mistake .
we all make mistakes .
it' s part of what makes us human .
what happened ?
are you all right ?
it' s happening again .
i can feel it .
i' m gonna call clark , and we' re gonna get you help , okay ?
it' s coming .
i can feel it .
there has to be something that we can do .
there is .
the windmill that you told me about , remember ?
where the whole world stretches out around you .
i' d like to see it .
just once .
please , lana , hurry .
chloe , has evan been here ?
no .
i mean , at the rate he' s aging , i' m not even sure i' d recognize him .
he must be with lana .
i keep trying to call her , but all i get is static .
maybe he' s putting off an energy field like his mom was .
that would explain the power surges .
power surges ?
yeah , they' ve been popping up all over town for the last hour .
looks , they' re happening all over .
what' s this ?
it' s the dwp grid .
see , these are the affected areas .
where' s the most recent one ?
um ...
10 miles west on the outskirts of town in the middle of nowhere .
why would lana and evan be way out there ?
the windmill .
the one at chandler field ?
go get ' em , speedy .
you were right .
the whole world is right there .
it' s beautiful .
i' m glad you finally got a chance to see it .
lana , you have to go .
no , clark , we have to help him .
there' s no time .
you have to go now .
clark ... go .
it' s okay .
i' m here .
i' m sorry for what i said .
it' s okay , i know .
it' s all right .
i' m glad it was you and lana that found me .
i think you found us .
what' s happening ?
i can feel it .
you better go .
no .
evan , i' m not leaving you .
i wish you had been my father , clark .
evan .
evan .
clark !
clark !
clark , are you all right ?
i got clear just before ... where' s evan ?
he' s gone .
i can' t believe he' s gone .
i know .
me too .
this whole year , i' ve felt ... so disconnected .
but when evan came into my life , it was like i finally knew where i belonged .
i had a purpose .
he only lived for a short time , but it seems like evan' s affected us like we' ve known him our whole lives .
clark , we think we have all the time in the world , that we' re going to live forever , but it' s not true .
i guess we should make the most of the time we have before it' s too late .
this was his favorite book .
really ?
yeah .
it was my favorite book when i was a kid .
i , um ,
i used to pretend that i was the rabbit .
i was just like him , and my parents had brought me to life with their love .
my only hope is that evan felt that way about us .
it' s a 1961 bordeaux .
i am honored .
well , i assume your visit means i have ... cause to celebrate .
don' t all my visits deserve to be celebrated , genevieve ?
some more than others .
mmm ... do you have something for me ?
i most certainly do .
to the resolution of our problem .
hmm ...
parenthood ... it' s an interesting phenomen on , isn' t it ?
the lengths we go to ... to protect our children .
no limits .
what are you ...
the wine you' ve just drunk will kill you in a matter of minutes .
i' m told that the pain will be excruciating .
how about a trade ?
you give me the stone that you stole from bridgette crosby , and i give you ... the antidote .
one more thing ... you go near my son , and anything that happens to him happens to you .
is that understood ?
the element , genevieve .
where is it ?
you did everything you could , clark .
i' m sure evan knew that .
all the times that i' ve run off or disappeared or almost died , how do you guys deal with that ?
it isn' t easy , clark , but it does come with the territory .
you see , every parent' s greatest fear is that one day they ... will lose their child forever .
it seems like raising a kid is the toughest job in the world .
it' s also the most rewarding .
there is nothing quite like watching your son grow up into a young man you can be very proud of .
it' s too bad i' il never know what that' s like .
why not ?
i' m from another planet .
i' m not even human .
who knows if i can have kids ?
clark , your father and i couldn' t have children .
we were still blessed with a son .
you never know what the future will bring you .
clark .
lana told me you straightened things out with child services .
i appreciate it .
well , i know you grew pretty tight with him .
i promise you , evan' s life wasn' t in vain .
what do you mean ?
well , my team believes studying his unique cellular structure could advance research on cancer and age related diseases by hundreds of years .
i' m releasing our findings to every research facility across the globe .
evan' s life may offer hope for generations to come .
he was a special kid , lex .
i can' t help wondering what kind of man he would' ve become .
a good one ... as long as you were in his life .
i bet you' re gonna be a great dad someday , clark .
so will you , lex .
i don' t know about that .
look , we' re all reflections of how we' ve been raised .
your parents gave you encouragement and support .
my chose the opposite track .
i plan on leaving a different kind of legacy .
well , i better get back to work .
thanks , lex .
mr. luthor ... are you sure you want to release the findings ?
eventually ...
