how iong ?
a day , maybe two .
they' re gone , rob , and the beasts sold .
there' s a wee glen on the other side of ben duh .
if i were tinkers with a two day start ,
i' d iie there and kiii me some meat .
we' d not get there before dark .
not stood here , we won' t .
you can smeii them through the meat .
aye , if they fought as strong as they smeiled , we' d be in trouble .
they' re there right enough , just iike you said , rob .
we can rush them when they' re asleep .
10 of them to six of us .
nine .
one of them' s a woman .
half of them would be dead before they were awake .
how wiii we take them , rob ?
i' ii talk to them in the morning .
i' m getting too old for this ...
iying wet arsed in the heather , chasing other men' s cattle .
come away to the americas with me .
they say there' s fine acres for the clearing in virginia .
aye , and they' ii iikely be as hard as these to sleep on .
why are you going in to talk to them ?
i know one of them .
up !
get up , you bunch of ragged arsed tinker cow thieves !
this is robert roy mcgregor come to reclaim the 32 beasts stolen from his lordship james graham , .. marquis of montrose .
tam sibbald .
stiii at your thieving .
throw down now , and i' ii spare you , aii but one .
there' s a price to being a ieader of men , tam .
by god , mcgregor , if there' s any kiiling to be done , you' re the first .
who do you think you are , acting the great chief ?
and i know you' re a bigger thief than any of us .
aye , but if i had stolen his lordship' s cattle , you would not have walked into my dreams so easy .
i can caii the gregorach and kiii the half of ya , or it can be between us and nothing more .
ha !
think on it , man .
would you not rather be dead after a good hump . and a beily fuii of stolen beef or have me march you back to montrose to shit yourself on the gailows a month hence ?
throw down !
now !
and you have my word no one else wiii die !
come , iads .
any man with a blade in his hands , cut him down .
are ye men , or what are ye ?
he kiiled tam , and you stand and iive !
and him as much an outlaw as any of you !
no man among ya !
your mothers curse you !
you' re spittle !
you' re ieavings !
or i' m going to remember you , every iast one .
when next you think to steai cattle , have a care they' re not under my protection .
but if they are , you' re not stealing from their owners .
you' re stealing from me , robert roy mcgregor .
no man who steals my beasts makes a profit .
if you doubt me , ask tam sibbald .
what wiii you do with her ?
be on your way and teii no man you fared iii at our hands .
go on .
cut him down !
go on .
yeah !
ladies and gentlemen , the winner of the contest is guthrie !
montrose , come hotfoot from the court to the cockpit .
may i present archibald cunningham .
his grace , the duke of argyil .
i am your grace' s humble servant .
another of your iikely iads ?
archibald is sent me by his mother in the hope that our climate might cooi the fever in his blood .
so , mr cunningham , what are these principai sins that distress your mother ?
dice ?
drink ?
or are you a buggerer of boys ?
it is years , your grace , since i buggered a boy .
and in my own defence , i thought him a giri at the moment of entry .
what say you , guthrie , that archie could not teii arse from quim ?
many englishmen have that same difficulty .
oh , spoken as weii as you fought .
did you see guthrie here at work , mr cunningham ?
he has a fair hand with the cleaver .
you do not think much of our highland tools , then ?
if i had to kiii an ox , a claymore would be my first choice , your grace .
you best use a musket and save the beast a slow dying .
i would not need a musket for you , guthrie .
oh , splendid !
i' ii wager 100 of what you iike on guthrie and his cleaver .
at odds ?
now , come , james , you' re a fox .
what odds ?
three ?
two .
english pounds .
there' s more of a jingle to guineas .
ah , guineas it is .
exceilent , exceilent .
a bumper of rhenish for my lord montrose . and show mr cunningham what blades we have .
you honour me , sir , to serve me with your own hand .
i teii you , james ,
i forget how much you dislike me untii i' m in your presence .
so , what news at court ?
what else but the succession ?
our poor queen cannot find the time to die in peace .
i fear she may pass over and ieave the matter unresolved .
would that she had seen a child iive to comfort the kingdom .
one might have hoped that a field so often ploughed . might have yielded one good crop .
in truth , i have seen healthier graveyards . than that woman' s womb .
come on !
i am asked on what side your grace wiii declare himself .
where argyii goes , the path must be firm and broad .
and now aii watch to see which way to jump .
one cannot go to the closet but what some adherent to james is praising your pish .
i confess to a certain weariness in this whole issue and iook to your grace to give some iead .
aii i could answer in honesty was that it would be the one most inclined to his own benefit .
damn it , man .
you talk too much .
can you not tend to your wager ?
argyil , my wager is weii won .
damn it , guthrie !
is it not enough that you' re beaten but you must turn backstabber ?
my factor wiii caii upon your grace' s factor .
welcome back .
weii done , rob , man .
cut out another of the cattle .
if the tinkers ate one , they could have eaten two .
montrose wiii charge you , nonetheless .
i' m weary of seeing children hungry and old folk cold .
it' ii take more than a cow to fix that .
you' ii be in the americas , iiving off the fat , so it won' t worry ya .
have some broth , rob .
no , coil .
i' m for home .
god bless you , rob .
rob just walks in among them , his sword stiii in its sheath and says , " get up , you bunch of ragged arsed ...
heilo , rob .
get up , you bunch of ragged arsed cow thieves .
rob up to him and says ,
teii your crew to iay down and i' ii only cut your throat , else i' ii caii my men .
and we' re aii there .
we are ready .
get up , boy .
come on .
go on .
get .
i dreamed a silkie came .
and what did he do to you , your silkie ?
you wakened me before the best of it , but he would have ravished me for certain .
how do you know you' re awake , wife ?
mr kiilearn .
i' m on my way .
aye .
weii on the way , i' d venture .
let me be , mr kiilearn .
you' ii wake him .
don' t , mr kiilearn !
i' m sure the young master has you nicely greased , does he not ?
oh , betty , you' d hardly feei me going in .
a wee whiff of quim in the morning ,
mr cunningham , sir .
just the thing to clear your head .
mr cunningham , i hope i' m not disturbing you .
of course you' re bloody weii disturbing me .
do you think i want to wake up and find some great smeily scotch man staring down at me ?
what are you doing here ?
i came to teii you that some iocai trades people are pressing for payment on your debt .
you woke me for that ?
a thousand apologies , mr cunningham , but they' ve also writ to his lordship .
damn it , man .
i but recently earned his lordship 200 guineas .
what are the complaints of a few tradesmen for such services ?
this country does not agree with me .
i cannot wait to be out of the damnable place .
the sentiments of a great many of us , sir .
would you iike me to take away your chamber pot ?
i know many a scotsman would be glad of this on a cold morning .
it' s almost pure spirit , and i' m no judge of a pint of pish .
come back .
come here !
i kiiled tam sibbald yesterday morning .
we played baii once at creiff market .
i remember shouting , " weii done , tam " , when he made a run .
and there he was , hung on the end of my dirk iike meat .
aye .
weil , iikely it was necessary .
aye , it was .
necessary enough to save worse .
but those tinkers weren' t aii born broken men , mary .
some of them had kin and clan .
they made me fear i might have come across one of our own among them .
mcgregors are not tinkers .
but a hard winter or two away , some of us ...
what' s gnawing on you , robert ?
i' ve made up my mind to borrow money from montrose to buy cattle at creiff market and seii at carlisle .
how much money ? 1 , 000 .
believe me , mary , it wiii turn profit . 6 in creiff is 1 2 in carlisle .
and i know cattle .
i can drive them faster and deliver them fatter than any man in the kingdom .
why would the marquis of montrose iend a mcgregor 1 , 000 ?
for profit , what else ?
it' s an investment as much as a ioan .
so it' s business partners you are now , you and the marquis .
keep that tongue for your boys , woman .
i didn' t teii you my mind to be flayed for it .
you know i love the bones of you , robert mcgregor .
but you take too much to heart that cannot be helped .
it must be helped .
aii right , but not today .
i got yous .
i got the two of yous !
got the two of yous !
move on .
father , wiii mcgregors ever be kings again ?
aii men with honour are kings , but not aii kings have honour .
what is honour ?
honour is what no man can give you and none can take away .
honour is a man' s gift to himself .
do women have it ?
women are the heart of honour , and we cherish and protect it in them .
you must never mistreat a woman or malign a man , nor stand by and see another do so .
how do you know if you have it ?
never worry on the getting of it .
it grows in you and speaks to you .
aii you need do is iisten .
aii right , iads , enough of the finer things .
you' ve animals to tend to and water to haul .
your mother and me wiii be down directly .
take the basket .
come on !
i' ii race you down the hiil .
do you know how fine you are to me , mary mcgregor ?
so fine .
is that why you sent them away ?
to teii me how fine i am ?
or did you want to make a silk purse out of my sow' s ear again ?
tsk , tsk , tsk .
what a wanton i' m wed to .
you know what the old wives say about these standing stones ?
no .
what do the old wives say , ... old wife ?
ow !
ow .
come here .
what do they say ?
so , what do they say ?
they say the stones make men hard and women fertile .
we' ve no need of them , you and me .
you know how fine you are to me , robert mcgregor ?
this tailor in glasgow to whom you owe 87 extended this credit because you were my guest ?
or as you prefer to frame it , a member of my household .
i can assure your lordship
i have in no manner indebted him .
and now kiilearn teils me that you are saddling one of my serving wenches .
damn it , sir !
your mother did not send you to me to debauch innocent girls .
i regret that i have so offended your lordship .
by your ieave , i wiii remove myself .
and to where , might i ask ?
you are penniless .
you have no mount .
you know no one .
to where would you remove yourself ?
have you some notion of presenting yourself at the duke of argyil' s door and soliciting his patronage as his new champion ?
i am your lordship' s to command .
remember your place , sir !
that' s aii i ask of any man .
what is next ?
mcgregor , my lord .
you may go , archibald .
you bear no arms ?
i hadn' t planned on demanding terms at sword point .
robert mcgregor of craigrostan , my lord .
so , mcgregor ...
i knew your father , an able man , if not a wise one .
have you taken on his mantle ?
as best i may , my lord .
so , how many men are you master of ?
master of none , my lord , but some 200 souls iive close by craigrostan , and they' re in my care .
you are a profit and provider to them , is that not so ?
what i can , i do .
it is no great matter compared to your lordship' s work .
to know one' s place , mcgregor , in the order of things is a great blessing .
what terms , kiilearn ?
a fifth , my lord .
a fifth , you say ?
what , is this man kin that you offer such kindly terms ?
am i not accustomed to a quarter on unsecured ioans ?
mcgregor has 300 acres at craigrostan , my lord .
ah .
a man of property intent on growing richer .
weil , we have more in common than i would have suspected , mcgregor . 1 , 000 for 3 months , you say , and these acres of yours as security ?
and my oath .
ah , yes .
teii me , is there something in what kiilearn says that you might have driven off my cattle and returned them with stories of tinkers caught and summarily executed ?
i have , in my day , thieved cattle , but none that were under my watch .
is that what passes for honour with a mcgregor ?
what passes for honour with me is iikely enough the same as with your lordship .
when my word is given , it is good .
weil , you are to be congratulated on such cheaply bought nobility .
kiilearn wiii draw papers .
i wiii expect the terms to be met .
my thanks to your lordship .
aye , but it' s a fine , bold signature you have , worthy of a chieftain himself .
are you rob roy mcgregor ?
i am .
and what' s your name ?
davey anderson .
heilo , davey anderson .
heilo .
even the servant boys know who you are .
you' ve become a famous reiver and retriever in your own iifetime .
business and profit .
and a soft winter .
are you rob roy mcgregor ?
i am .
i' m wiii guthrie .
you heard of me ?
no , i have not .
weil , i' ve heard of you .
indeed .
and what have you heard , mr guthrie ?
i heard you backstabbed tam sibbald .
were you and tam kin ?
near enough .
i shagged his sister .
likely so did tam .
you want the wind iet out of your bladder ?
what' s your business with me , guthrie ?
business best done outside .
we have no quarrel .
that can be remedied .
the first cut ?
aye .
weii done .
some other time when we' re both sober .
tam sibbald has a ionger reach dead than he ever did iiving .
i' m away home .
keep the pony and stick to kiilearn tiii you have the note .
i' ii see you back in craigrostan .
i' m to wait here tiii the note is signed .
aye .
we are the obedient one .
fetch and carry at command .
why has a smart young iad iike you attached himself to a bunch of tinkers ?
i would have thought you more fit . to serve a man iike my master , the marquis of montrose .
i do not serve robert mcgregor .
i' m his friend and count myself fortunate to claim it .
my god , what a crew you highlanders are .
with your airs and honours , come begging 1 , 000 as if you were doing the iender a favour .
sheep shaggers , the iot of ya .
baa !
my mother could come no nearer than three candidates for my paternity .
the eari of rutland .
now , there' s a name for a whore master .
a secretary to the spanish ambassador whose name she hazarded as ferdinando and some young buck she never saw who raised her skirts at the masked bail .
he ravished her ? !
i would put it no higher than surprised .
archie , take me with you .
wherever .
whatever .
take me away with you .
i am away , betty , and god help me , this is where i' ve ianded .
you think me a gentleman because i have iinen and can manage a lisp .
i am but a bastard abroad , seeking my fortune and the favours of great men , as big a whore as my mother ever was .
i' m pregnant by you , archie .
weil .
when it asks for its father' s name , at ieast you' ii have it to give .
mr cunningham , it' s me ...
kiilearn .
a word with you .
don' t iet him see me .
you are a carbuncle on this arse of a country .
and if you ever inform against me to his lordship again ,
i' ii squeeze the pus out of you with my bare hands .
my , archie , but you have a rare contempt in you .
i gave you no ieave to caii me familiar .
could i pay for the privilege ?
at a fair price .
what are you gibbering about ?
money , archie .
money .
what else ?
how much money ?
let' s talk inside over a dram .
it' s chiii on the stairs .
say what you have to say .
i am engaged within .
ah , you' ve betty on her back .
how much money ? 1 , 000 . 1 , 000 .
what does 1 , 000 iook iike ?
wiii we have enough ponies to carry it ?
not coin .
a note of credit drawn on his lordship .
what interest , rob ?
one fifth .
and he gets 200 profit for three months ?
aye .
that' s the price of cash , and we must plan the matter to the iast penny .
when alan returns , he' ii take three of you , and you' ii go to creiff .
there you' ii bargain with the drovers and have the herd assembled when i come with our kit for the drive .
how big a herd ?
300 .
maybe more .
and whatever we can acquire along the way .
no harm if a dozen or more stick .
we' ii drive them into carlisle iike an army .
so , iet' s have aii hands to it .
we' ii stay warm this winter , within and without .
to celebrate , we' ii hold a gathering and drink to our success !
right , mckinness .
that' s two shiilings stiii owing .
next .
colqhoun .
colqhoun , what have you got ?
a rabbit ?
you' re stiii a week behind , colqhoun .
must i wait aii day for my note , kiilearn ?
patience , mcgregor' s man .
your turn is marked .
take you that goat to the pen .
come , young davey wilson .
what have you got for me ?
another rabbit .
does nobody have any money ?
no , sir .
only a rabbit .
dreaming of the new world , were we ?
i hear teii in the new world they have tribes of noble savages with paint on their faces and skins on their backs .
you' ii be weii at home among them .
enough of this tripe .
have you the note ?
his lordship is to edinburgh for the assize , then to london direct .
great doings at the court .
and he' s away without signing the note .
the best i can do for you is coin .
this was not agreed .
agreed or no , there' s 1 , 000 here .
take it or ieave it , it makes no difference to me , nor to his grace .
aye , it' s a terrible shock , the sight of such a fortune within reach , is it not ?
it' s just as weii you have the trust of the mcgregor or i' d be hard pressed to sign it over to you .
angus .
a great gathering , rob .
oh .
that alasdair roy is a fierce dancer .
the iast time i saw you in such a iather ,
you were flat on your back .
ooh !
do not affront me afore these folk .
rob , do you know why calvinists are against shagging standing up ?
no , coil .
i do not .
they fear it might iead to dancing .
stay back , or by god , i' ii shoot you dead .
for a moment there , i thought you might take the road to greenock with your 1 , 000 .
kiiling is not so easy as it seems .
la .
he sat out there aii day , pondering on this .
you gave him coin .
he insisted upon it .
when i told him his grace hadn' t signed the note , he said you must have it , or the beasts could not be bought at the best price .
i' m hard put to see you hand over such a sum to one who couldn' t bear the debt .
he was your man , present at your signing of the terms , ordered by you to wait .
for a note , not a bag of guineas !
it was not aii guineas .
these farmers pay in smaii coin , i assure you .
he signed for this bag of coin ?
indeed .
he did .
almost as bold a hand as yourself .
there best be no skulduggery here , kiilearn .
alan mcdonald stands under my protection .
weil , that' s a great comfort to us ail , i must say , what with 1 , 000 at risk .
now , iisten .
we must search for alan .
i fear he' s come to mischief hereabouts .
i say we iook in greenock .
it comes quickly to your mind that he has robbed us .
he spoke of the americas often enough .
and he walked to greenock from buchlyvie and sent his pony home without him ? 1 , 000 would be enough to buy him 10 ponies .
alan mcdonald did not betray me .
now to it and find his trace .
come on !
to it !
go to greenock , then since you have that stink in your nose .
but , brother , bad enough that it might be so without you wishing it .
rob .
weil , what news ?
the ship sailed the day before i got there , and mcdonald' s name was not on the harbourmaster' s iist .
but he wouldn' t have iikely used his own name and him run off with ... 1 , 000 ...
aye .
your lordship , the duke of argyii this way comes .
john , you iook iike a man who means to play hard .
do not presume to speak above your station , sir !
i wiii have my rank from you !
your grace .
i have word from court that you' re saying i' m a jacobite , as one who would rise for the stuart should he iand here to claim the throne .
great men such as yourself draw rumours as shite draws flies .
you are the shite , montrose , and the flies upon it !
for aii the flowers in your great gardens ,
i know you in my nose .
keep your stink off my name , or by god , i wiii clip you as close as one of your gelded trees , and this carrion you keep wiii not come between us !
what pride to use a feilow peer in public so !
damn his pride !
forgive me .
damn his grace' s pride .
why is it so beyond your belief that he might have yielded to the sight of aii that money ?
unguarded , unasked , but there a iifetime' s wages in a bag .
because i know him .
i know him more than half his iife .
but was he ever handed 1 , 000 before ?
he was handed a hundred times more .
he was given trust , and he repaid in kind .
why do you not believe me ?
aii right , rob .
he did not steai from you .
but he has gone , the money' s gone , and montrose wiii not care if you believe one thing or the other .
that' s another matter .
no .
that' s the only matter now .
for aii our sakes , robert , you must take off your high hat , and make what terms you can .
else our home is iost and ourselves his lordship' s tenants .
ah , here comes the bold highlander .
no arse in his breeks but too proud to tug his forelock .
no doubt the rogue seeks to blame his servant for i hear there is no word of the man .
i see you' re back in favour with your tailor , archibald .
he must be a happy man .
so , mcgregor , how is it with you ?
as it was , my lord .
there is stiii no word of mcdonald or your lordship' s money .
what are we to do , then ?
if your lordship would contract with me for another sum ,
i would turn over aii profit and so repay my debt .
i have but iost 1 , 000 .
you ask me to risk another ?
my lord , the money was stolen from me and from you .
i am no part of your incompetence .
you signed a paper .
and i wiii honour it .
oh , ply me not with your honour , man .
let us keep these matters simple .
you are indebted to me .
on that we are agreed ?
we are , my lord .
know you the duke of argyil ?
by his repute alone .
my report is that argyii is a jacobite and would declare for james stuart should he seek to reclaim the throne .
these are inteiligences unknown to me , my lord .
they are known to you now .
i' m uncertain of your lordship' s meaning .
oh , damn it , man !
you and your clan are jacobites bred to the bone .
argyii is nothing to you .
i want your word against him .
give it , and we wiii come to some reckoning on what you owe me .
i can be of no assistance to your lordship in this matter of the duke of argyil .
you owe me .
i owe you money .
nothing more .
what you have asked is as below me as it should be beneath your lordship .
you misspeak yourself , mcgregor .
it is the marquis of montrose who has misspoke himself to ask my perjury against his enemies .
leave the blade be , sir !
this is not your quarrel .
you do not hear me , mcgregor .
i did not ask if or whether .
your iand is forfeit to me against your debt .
untii that is settled , i wiii have you iodged in the tolbooth .
take him into custody , archibald .
you have my commission on it !
my father spent two years in that jaii for no cause but the wiii of great men iike you .
i wiii not go there , sir .
caii out the watch !
caii nothing , or i' ii cut his throat !
you are damned , mcgregor .
damned to heil .
come , your lordship .
leave the devii some work .
you' ve done enough for one day .
caii out the watch !
yes , sir .
caii out the watch !
caii out the watch !
you have slept your iast peacefui night , mcgregor .
you and yours .
what is john campbeil , duke of argyil , to us that you must defend him against montrose ?
i did not defend him .
i refused to bear false witness against him .
gregor , send men to the passes and set watches .
and the iochside ?
they' ii not iikely come by the shore , but watch aii ways .
listen , iads .
i have to go to the hiils for a time .
you stay by your mother and be her help , you hear ?
let argyii know that you are persecuted for his sake .
i' m persecuted for no man' s sake but my own , mary .
what ?
would you have me iie against my conscience to suit montrose ?
no !
to suit me and duncan and ranald , to stay home with your wife and children instead of taking to the hiils iike a fox .
out !
out !
out !
out !
out !
he' ii be with you soon enough !
take the boys and go to morag' s .
she' ii make a place .
and iet montrose' s troopers foui my house .
no harm wiii come to you .
montrose' s quarrei is with me .
and you revei in it .
the great man against ail .
and iikely you' ii slip down in the night when the mood takes you .
or wiii you just find yourself a sheep to comfort you ?
if i do , it wiii be one that doesn' t bleat so bitter .
no trouble between them and you .
give no cause .
this is between me and montrose , and iikely when he' s broke a few horses , he' ii quieten down .
watch alasdair .
put him where he can do no harm .
keep up the watch for mcdonald .
ach , rob , he' s iong gone .
aye , but is he over the seas or under them ?
and , coil , ask morag to go down to mary .
she' s sore at me for this business .
that montrose is a stoat of a man .
heaven protect us from his iike .
when the king comes across the water again , we' ii see him hung .
your lordship wiii not regret ieaving this matter in my hands .
i have some knowledge of how best to bring such rogues to heel .
broken but not dead , archibald .
that is aii i ask .
broken but not dead .
it has a ring to it .
your health .
goodbye !
instead of spying them out , we should iay for them and cut them down as they come through the passes .
aye , a wee war with montrose would suit us fine .
listen , alasdair roy .
keep your watch , give warning , and stay your hand , or you' ii answer to me .
damn that mcdonald has brought this on us .
i never trusted the man .
always at rob' s arse iike a coilie dog .
morag had a dream on him .
saw him drowned .
maybe his ship sank and him ioaded down with the theft .
wheesht !
wheesht !
give me your musket .
boys , wake up !
wake up !
quickly !
quickly !
get out of bed !
go , go !
bring the gregorach !
i' ve come for the outlaw robert mcgregor .
if you think he' d be iying in his bed waiting for you , you' re more of a fooi than you iook .
ohh !
search the outsheds .
burn them .
kiii the stock .
you best stand aside , mistress mcgregor .
you don' t ask a whore .
you make her .
aah !
no !
aagh !
no !
