31 , 42 ... hut !
and the crows take the state championship ! ha ha
well , i knew you were talented i didn' t know you could see the future
i was just practicing oh , it' s good to visualize game winning plays , especially when the coach of metropolis university is coming to the game on friday night , to check out the new star quarterback .
are you kidding me ?
i don' t kid about football
that' s great , i ...
are you ok ?
coach , i' il take care of him .
thanks for stopping by , that' s great news
clark ...
clark , what' s the matter son ?
i hear ringing .
can you tell me where it' s coming from ?
i need to go .
clark !
you don' t look well dad .
forget to take your vitamins ?
i know how deeply angry you are lex you let them put me in this god forsaken place because of that anger but it' s too late to change anything now
so i' ve heard .
a month left before your liver gives up on you for good
what , you didn' t think i would trek all the way out here without having a chat with your doctor ?
i wanted to see you , lex to say goodbye ... face to face .
i have done many things in my life that i have come to regret but there is one thing i' il never forgive myself
i never ... said ...
i love you .
please .
lex don' t !
clark ?
right there .
what are you doing ?
what are you doing ?
let me go !
let go of me !
lex !
lex !
let go of me !
what the hell are you doing here ?
your father he ... wanted to see me .
did he ask you to tackle me to the floor while you' re at it ?
he had something sharp , lex ...
a knife .
let him go .
let' s get out of here lex .
now .
clark , you don' t seem like your usual self .
you barely said a word the entire ride home .
sorry .
being in that prison ...
i guess it upset me .
yeah , well it isn' t exactly the happiest place on earth .
no , it isn' t lex .
do you ever feel guilty ?
about sending your father to prison , i mean .
why would i ?
the man murdered his parents .
i did society a favor .
and that blood relationship , it doesn' t mean anything to you ?
clark , since when did you become president of my father' s fan club ?
you' re right ... of course .
he' s only your father
why should you feel anything ?
hey clark .
dad .
yeah , come on over here son .
i' m glad you' re back .
your mother and i were really getting worried about you .
are you feeling all right ?
i feel fine .
that' s a relief .
it' s never a good sign when people around here start hearing strange noises .
look , since you' re here , give me a hand .
lift it on up .
lift ?
lift what ?
the tractor .
it' s been giving me trouble all week , i need to check out the rear end , come on .
lift it up .
how would i do that ?
very funny , clark , but i don' t have all day .
lift up the tractor please , come on .
let' s go !
really nice , but i' m not 5' 4 " .
lift it up , over your head , i need to get under the back .
all right , that ought to do it .
of course .
it all makes sense now ...
what' s that ?
oh ... it' s just ... boy , is it dirty under here .
are you sure you' re all right ?
never felt better in my life .
you must be lex .
lex ?
no , i' m not lex .
i' m clark kent .
houston , we have a problem
that stone was meant for lex .
where did lionel get this ?
um .... i don' t know please , you have to tell me
it came from this mayan rain god statue
one of his teams found it in an underwater ruin off the coast of honduras .
how did he know to search there ?
well he' s scouring the globe . these ancient symbols ?
they' ve shown up in egypt ...
central america , even a sacred indian cave right here in kansas
these symbols , they look like they mean something
you better believe it .
the mark on your stone right there , it means water .
that' s the element of , you know , transformation .
how do you know that ?
well , i' ve always had a thing for pattern recognition , codes , ciphers , that sort of thing .
that one means fire , and the other one up there that' s air .
so you take the three , put them together ...
mayan legend says it leads you to a trove of knowledge beyond your wildest dreams
i didn' t believe any of this myself until , 58 minutes , 14 seconds ago when a myth about body jumping , suddenly became ... real .
hard to argue with it now , stranger things have happened
what did you do to end up in here ?
if you ask the da , i embezzled $14 million from the princeton university pension fund
did you do it ?
i' m a mathematician , i' m looking for hidden patterns in the sea scrolls , money doesn' t really mean a lot to me .
you know what happened ?
i was framed .
and you just happened to end up in this prison , in lionel luthor' s cell ?
yeah , that was pretty lucky , huh ?
all i have to do is give him a hand with a couple of these symbols , and he set me up with his lawyers .
they' re still trying to get me out of here , i just hope he lasts long enough ...
what do you mean ?
he' s dying .
yeah , he' s dying .
mathematically speaking .
if he' s dying , then ... that means ...
i' m going to die .
oui , mademoiselle ...
how may i help you sir ?
this ...
this is lionel luthor .
account # 434690 i' d like to liquidate my account .
my entire account , and purchase ...
bearer bonds .
mother' s maiden name , mr. luthor mehan .
and what is your ..
oh i' m sorry mr. luthor , there seems to be a problem with your voice verification .
what ?
clark !
martha !
i know you' re practically a grown man clark , but please call me mom no matter how old you are .
sure .... sure .
dinner' s ready , but the way you' re dressed are you going out ?
um , no , no , i justed wanted a change , i' m bored with plaid .
well , i' il see you inside .
clark ?
what are you doing ?
well , i .... i just ...
wanted to tell you how beautiful you look today ...
mom .
something is not right ...
i can see it in your eyes .
is it because of that ringing you heard ?
i don' t know .
i need a hug .
oh ....
clark !
what' s gotten into you ?
i , i don' t know .
well , jump down there and put it out !
put it out ?
how ?
with your hands ?
hey mom ... hehehe
hey !
hey , go upstairs and clean up !
hey clark !
look who came to check up on you .
hey .
how are you feeling ?
it' s good to see you up and around .
i feel fine .
you sure ?
cause you' re looking at me like you have absolutely no idea who i am .
no , i know who you are .
you' re my ... coach .
alright , well i guess i' il see you at practice tomorrow .
you know , i' m not going to be able to make it .
it' s pretty important .
considering you could clinch a scholarship on friday .
coach , i just ...
i need to rethink my priorities .
i have no interest in football whatsoever .
whoa , clark , hey .
you realize that every player on that roster would kill to be in your position .
you get a free ride to the college of your choice .
you just want to quit the team ?
precisely .
edgar , i' ve got to make a call .
how do i do that ?
well , once a week , you get a turn , unless you know how to work the system .
which of course i do .
edgar , please .
i need you to help me .
what' s in it for me ?
i can get you out of here .
c' mon , if the real lionel luthor can' t do it , what are you going to do ?
i mean , you have no money , you have no power .
i have a lot more power than you think .
time to play " who wants to beat a billionaire " !
yeah , here we go now !
you got my 5 large ?
what ?
what are you talking about ?
that senile act isn' t going to work , trump .
payment' s past due .
things have changed .
i don' t have any money .
you' d have to ...
don' t play me , trump .
i' m doing 3 life terms for murder .
what' s one more ?
you got ' till tomorrow .
lex ... changed the password .
what , is flannel too ' five minutes ago ' ?
whoa ... who pulled a ' paul bunyan ' on the desk ?
it was that way when i got here .
weird .
you know , chloe , i' m concerned about your well being .
oh yeah ?
why is that ?
if lionel luthor managed somehow to get out of prison , what do you suppose he' d do ?
about you i mean .
why ?
has the lionel luthor alert suddenly been elevated to ' orange ' ?
do you know something i don' t ?
no ....
but it always pays to be cautious .
well , i' m not exactly shaking in my sneakers , i mean he won' t be eligible for parole until he' s like 112 , so ...
you never know , he could get out sooner than you think .
yeah well i think maybe our quarterback has been sacked one too many times .
maybe ...
i do feel as though i' m looking through a different pair of eyes .
i certainly see you in a whole new light .
well , what exactly is that supposed to mean ?
i have to confess that i ...
i find you absolutely fascinating .
it' s that twinkle ... in your eye .
your wonderfully sexy smile .
and your skin , it' s ...
clark , what are you doing ?
what i' ve wanted to do for a very ... very long time .
don' t you wish ...
miss sullivan .
i did some research on the countess thoreaux .
it turns out that we have a lot more in common than i thought .
don' t tell me the countess ran a coffee shop ?
no , she' s from this village in france .
' casa neaux de momiralle '
same village that my mom' s ancestors came from .
really .
what do you think it all means ?
i don' t know .
it' s all really strange .
she was buried as a martyr ... but ,
she was burned as a witch .
hey .
we will figure this out .
i promise .
ladies .
not bad !
you are my main concern , lana .
we' il get through this countess thing together .
oh please , don' t stop on my account .
clark , it' s ...
oh , you don' t have to explain yourself to me ... lana .
you' re young ... vital ... you have needs .
right coach ?
what do you think ?
i wanted to thank you ...
for taking time out of your busy schedule , mr. luthor .
i understand how time consuming making license plates can be .
you' re not going to touch me with that rock in your hand .
you won' t get near me .
not with my ... speed .
you' re never going to get away with this .
oh but i am .
with my mind , and your body ... the sky' s the limit ...
clark .
i don' t know what you' re talking about .
you know it' s becoming clear to me why you' re so secretive . you understand that true power is better left concealed .
no matter how hard you try , you' il never be me .
my parents ... my friends ... they' il see right through you .
i' m not so sure .
they haven' t so far , have they ?
i need you to do something for me .
say the name ' mehan ' , and these numbers ...
why ?
because if you don' t , your good friend lex ... will very shortly be dead .
an unfortunate accident ...
but he' s your son !
your only child !
and i' m his only father .
but that didn' t stop him from putting me in prison , and robbing me of everything i have .
now speak the words into the recorder or you will be directly responsible for your friend' s death .
your account number please .
434690 .
may i please have your mother' s maiden name ?
mehan .
voice verification complete .
account balance is $2 . 59 .
no , no , there was 57 million u. s. dollars in that account .
a withdrawal for that amount was made two months ago .
the day i was convicted .
lex ... of course .
clark ?
this one .
about last night .
um ...
i' m sorry that you found out about me and jason the way that you did .
you' il get over it .
we didn' t just meet .
he was in paris over the summer , and ... we sort of ... spent a lot of time together .
how romantic .
lovers meeting , first kiss shared on the banks of the river sienne .
he moved to smallville to be with me , clark .
it' s kind of serious .
i' m not surprised .
a man would travel around the world to ... pluck your succulent fruit .
don' t talk to me like that .
i can' t help it .
i' m sorry .
clark i need you to promise me something .
whatever you want .
don' t tell anyone about me and jason .
i don' t understand why you' re so interested in this high school football coach .
think a minute .
do you have any idea what i have to offer you ?
yeah , yeah i think i do .
lies , and secrecy , and a whole lot of confusion .
you' re the one that broke up with me , remember ?
well that was a mistake , i was ... too young to know what i was doing
i' m older now ... more mature .
well i' m not so sure .
oh lana i' m very different , let me show you .
who the hell do you think you are ?
clark kent ... of course .
step in here , miss .
five minutes .
i' m glad you came .
i' m only here because you told me it involves the safety of my son .
i know this is hard to believe , but i swear it' s the truth .
it' s me mom ... its clark .
you' re sick , lionel .
you need help .
mom , you have to believe me .
i' m leaving !
mom , mom , remember when i was 6 , and i was playing tag with dad , and all of a sudden i started running faster than i' d ever run before , and i was in the middle of palmer woods , completely lost , and you and dad had to call sheriff ethan .
and when you saw me you started crying .
and i thought something was wrong with me , and you said " no there wasn' t " , and then you held me in your arms , and you told me i was just special ,
i' m your special boy ...
oh !
clark !
how ?
the ringing i heard , it came from a stone , it was in lionel' s hand , and it had a kryptonian symbol on it , and it was glowing , and i thought it was going to hurt lex , so i got in between them , and the next thing i know , i was ... lionel .
i was in lionel' s body .
and he knows about your powers .
mom , be careful .
lionel could be anywhere .
crunching numbers ?
or spinning daydreams ?
i don' t remember you being a scotch drinker .
it' s very difficult to resist a 29 year old thailand .
you know i had a feeling you' d pillage your father' s collection of single malts .
now how do you know it' s from my dad ?
isn' t it all your dad' s ?
this castle ?
luthorcorp , the cars , the jets , everything to the very cuff links in your sleeves .
clark , i know you well enough to realize this isn' t you talking .
you' re absolutely right , i' m not myself .
i' m under stress .
lex , i need to get my hands on $57 million dollars .
that' s an interesting dollar amount .
it' s not your money , you stole it .
now i want it back .
now get on the phone , tell the bank to wire the money or i' il snap your larynx like a twig .
go ahead , kill me .
all i wanted was the best for you ... and you destroyed me .
dad ?
lex !
hello .
i' ve been trying to reach you .
where have you been ?
hi sweetheart .
i was at the mechanic' s , the tractor , i' m afraid it' s shot .
jonathan , listen to me .
you' ve got to go to the closet and get a meteor rock .
what are you talking about martha ?
lionel is in clark' s body !
i thought i was invulnerable now , but i was wrong .
jonathan !
tell me what weakens me .
what is it ?
i have no idea what you' re talking about .
tell me what it is , jonathan .
no martha can' t help you now , tell me what it is !
hi , you' ve reached the kents .
leave a message .
does this thing work ?
hello ?
i' m calling for someone named clark ?
houston , we have a problem !
i' ve done some more reading , and it' s not good , so i hope you' re getting this , cause you should come see me , a. s. a. p.
is that really you in there lionel ?
no , it' s the easter bunny .
what did you find , what did the rest of the codes say ?
turns out , the transferrence is eventually going to come to an end .
you will revert back to your original bodies , eventually .
when ?
suppose it could happen at anytime ,
yeah , i thought you' d want to know that .
there must be some way to make it permanent .
well , none that i see ...
save murder .
theoretically speaking , if you were to kill the other you , then there would be no ' you ' to revert back to , so i suppose you could be clark kent for the rest of your life ... his life , your life , the difference is nil ...
the artifact , where is it ?
guards took it from me , yeah they thought it was a weapon .
time' s up , trump .
got something for me ?
yeah i' m still working on it .
just give me a few more days .
you think this is some kind of game ?
there' s no overtime here .
but there is sudden death .
way to go , man !
get him !
this is a lockdown !
i repeat , this is a lockdown !
return to your cells immediately !
go , go , go !
oh , that' s no good .
listen your lawyers , they haven' t been calling so ... should i call you ?
what happened to concealing your powers ?
sorry , only one clark allowed .
what are you going to do ?
go to high school ?
stack hay for the rest of your life ?
a farm boy ?
i don' t think so .
i have big plans for this ' clark kent . '
what else did lionel do ?
well , for starters ... you quit the football team .
i better call coach teague .
he' s not the only one .
lana and chloe came to see you and they both looked pretty upset .
before i do any of that , i' ve got to get that artifact
clark , i don' t want you going anywhere near that prison , son .
if i don' t find it , lionel could .
you can' t risk having the same thing happen to you all over again .
look , this isn' t the first time i heard the ringing sound .
when i was kal el , i heard the same sound , and it led me to an artifact with a kryptonian symbol on it , in lex' s jet .
where' s the artifact now , clark ?
i put it in a chamber in the cave wall .
there' s a slot for two more , and
lionel' s artifact matches one of them .
i don' t know where the other one is .
why didn' t you tell us about this earlier ?
with everything we' ve been through with jor el , i just wanted to close that chapter in my life .
guess it doesn' t matter what i want .
look , these artifacts .
i think they' re somehow meant for me .
and i think lionel luthor would disagree with that , don' t you ?
and now that he knows about your powers , he' s more dangerous than ever .
not for long .
clark , what are you talking about ?
lionel luthor' s dying , dad .
it couldn' t be ...
doctor , please just ... tell me .
mr. luthor , your liver is entirely disease free .
how can that be possible ?
i have no idea .
it' s the closest thing to a miracle i' ve ever seen .
have you been taking any unregulated meds ... supplements ?
no .
not that i know of .
you must understand i have no recollection of the past few days , doctor , i just ... know that , something ... here , something , inside of me , has changed .
profoundly .
i' m not ... the same man .
chloe , listen i' m not really sure what i did to you .
another convenient case of amnesia , huh ?
no , but whatever it is , i' m really sorry .
clark , you know what ?
it' s a really valiant effort , but you' ve used up your lifetime allotment of apologies .
look .
i' m only saying this to you because i care about you , but i think you should go and look for help .
some psychological help .
chloe , i totally appreciate you looking out for me , but i really don' t think i need to talk to anyone
well then how are you going to explain all of this , clark kent " crackhead " ?
chloe , i don' t do drugs , look it wasn' t me !
yeah , but see clark , it was you !
now a lot of people in this town have pulled a ' jeckyl and hyde ' but deep down , they' re still the same person .
lana .
he' s all yours .
have you said anything to anyone ?
what ?
don' t play games with me , clark .
seriously lana , i have no idea what you' re talking about .
this isn' t about you and me , alright ?
this is about jason losing his job .
why would jason lose his job ?
why do you think ?
if anyone had the slightest inkling that we were a couple , he' d be fired in a heartbeat .
you and jason ?
we' re both adults , and we' re not hurting anybody .
but the school has it' s rules .
he needs this job , clark .
please , after everything you' ve put me through , can you at least keep this a secret ?
it seems to be the one thing that you' re good at .
yeah .
lex !
stay where you are !
lex , it' s me , clark .
i need to talk to you .
after i drove my porsche into the river and you fished me out , i asked your dad if there was any way i could repay him .
what' d he say that we always joke about ?
lex , what is this , a pop quiz ?
answer the question !
he told you to drive slower .
welcome back .
so you know what happened ?
well , it was a bit of a giveaway when you asked for $57 million dollars .
lex , my mom told me what i did , and i' m sorry .
clark , if you didn' t come between me and my father in that visiting room , it would' ve been me sitting behind bars .
i should be thanking you .
i didn' t do anything you wouldn' t have done for me .
so how did my father do it ?
i ... i don' t know .
that strength you had .
it was incredible .
where did it come from ?
um , must have been a side effect of the transferrence .
well , whatever happened , i' m just glad it wore off .
lex , i have a favor to ask .
name it .
well , it has to do with your father' s cellmate .
he' s actually the one that helped me through this whole ordeal , he saved my life .
he swears he was framed .
clark , a lot of convicts swear they' ve been framed .
but i believe him .
and i promised him that if i got out , i' d do everything in my power to help him .
and lex , you' re the only one i know with the resources that might be able to help .
well , if i can manage to put a guilty man in prison ... maybe i can get an innocent man out .
i was told that it was going to be ..
edgar .
yes ?
do you have what we asked you for ?
oh .
uh ...
thank you .
nice car .
subtitles by topaz420 topaz420@ hotmail . com
