now , children , are you sitting comfortably ?
then i' il begin
this story started many thousands of years ago
but it was all over in just seven days
all that long , long time ago none of the things we can see now the sun , the moon , the stars , the earth , the animals , and plants not a single one existed , only god existed and so only he could have created them , and he did
mr. simpson !
what a character he was !
i wonder whatever became of old ...
i imagine he' s dead like all the rest
ah !
those were the days
mr. tuttle , your hair !
yes ?
good morning , ma' am , we' ve come about ..
oh , yes , of course !
come in !
i wasn' t expecting you so soon
you are ...
i' m bertha mills , ma' am
and this is edmund tuttle pleased to meet you , ma' am
you must be the gardener that' s right , the gardener
and this young lady is called lydia have you had much experience in service ?
oh , don' t let that angel face fool you , ma' am , she' s older than she looks
can you iron ?
what' s the matter ?
has the cat caught your tongue ?
she can' t talk , ma' am the poor little mite is a mute
but she' s a good little worker i can promise you that
alright , alright , the other girl i had spoke too much anyway
follow me , mrs. mills , you and the girl you will sleep in the attic room on top of the stairs
and you mr ....
tuttle , ma' am
tuttle , you could sleep in the shed around the back
as you can see , the housework has been rather neglected since the servants disappeared almost a week ago
you mean they just vanished ?
into thin air
no notice , nothing !
they didn' t even collect their wages
they ... they just left us what a strange thing to do
you' il soon find out there are times when this house isn' t exactly an ideal home
hence my advertisement in the newspaper requesting honest , hardworking people
there' s nobody more honest or hardworking than us
isn' t that right , mr. tuttle ?
oh , aye , we' re very honest and ... very hardworking
the kitchen , i have breakfast at eight , the children at nine
lunch will be served at one and dinner at half past seven
and the master , ma' am ?
the master went off to war a year and a half ago
i' ve had no news since the war ended
which of you does the cooking ?
i' m so sorry , ma' am
which of you does the cooking ?
you' il notice what i' m doing
in this house , no door must be opened without the previous one being closed first
it is vital that you remember this
it' s not as easy as it may seem
there are fifteen different keys for all of the fifty doors depending on which area of the house you' re in at the time
mrs. mills , from tomorrow onwards i will be leaving a set of keys in your charge
yes , ma' am
music room , that old piano was already here when we moved in
please do not let the children thumb away on it , it sets off my migraine
silence is something that we prize very highly in this house
that is why you will not find a telephone , a radio , or anything else that makes a racket
oh , we don' t have electricity either
during the war , the germans kept cutting it off , so we just learned to live without it
let' s continue
ma' am , there' s really no need to show us around the whole house , we ...
yes !
yes there is !
because here , most of the time , you can hardly see your way
it' s often difficult to make out if there is a table , a chair a door , a sideboard or one of my children playing hide and seek
what do you mean , ma' am ?
perhaps i should introduce you to the children
mr. tuttle , you can see to the garden now
you' il find tools in the shed yes , ma' am
you two could start closing the curtains
all of them
come
i' il wake them , you wait here
whatever you do don' t open the curtains
wakey wakey ...
now , come on , eyes closed hands together
blessed be , at light of day jesus to whom now i pray
blessed be the virgin pure whom i greet with faith so sure
jesus , mary spotless rose , keep us till this day doth close
they' re still half asleep what sweet little children
well , what do you say ?
how do you do ?
how do you do ?
how do you do , children ?
my name is mrs. mills but you can call me bertha , if you like
what are your names ?
anne nicholas
anne and nicholas , what pretty names are you going to be our new nanny ?
yes , my dears i' m your new nanny
it' s time for their breakfast
lydia , go to the kitchen and close every shutter
the doctors were never able to find a cure for what ?
their condition ...
children have a very serious allergy to light
they' re photosensitive and must never be exposed to any light much stronger than this
otherwise , in a matter of minutes they will break out in sores and blisters and begin to suffocate it would eventually be fatal
good heavens !
i don' t like this toast oh ?
why not ?
it tastes funny i liked it better before
that was because , before , somebody else made it
when are they coming back ?
they' re not coming back , child
just like daddy daddy is coming back , though
mrs. mills , our father is fighting in a war in france , you know
it' s the world war !
i know , but he' s in france
that' s enough chatterboxes finish up your breakfasts
are you going to leave us too ?
of course not !
why should i leave you ?
the others said they wouldn' t
but they did and then it happened
be quiet !
what do you mean , anne , what happened ?
mommy went ... mad nothing happened !
yes it did !
no , it didn' t !
yes , it did !
be quiet !
what' s going on ?
i want to see those plates empty in less than a minute , is that clear ?
mrs. mills , would you come outside a moment ?
i' d like a word with you
yes , ma' am
the postman usually comes every wednesday
but i just checked the letter box and this week he hasn' t
i' m afraid i don' t follow , ma' am
this letter should' ve been collected and delivered to the newspaper 5 days ago
it' s an advertisement for servants
since it was never published , would you mind explaining to me what you' re doing here
now i understand
well , ma' am , that' s exactly what i was going to say to you when you opened the door to us
the truth is that we just come by on the off chance
you know , a big house like this is always in need of someone who knows the ropes
you mean you' ve served in a house like this one before ?
this may come as a surprise to you , ma' am , but , we in fact used to work here
here ?
oh no , it was a few years ago
if you don' t mind my saying so , ma' am they were the best years of my life
that' s why we come by , because this house means a lot to us
perhaps i' d best show you our references , ma' am
no , no , no , don' t bother there' s no need , ah so you say you know the house well ?
like the back of my hand
well that is always assuming that the walls haven' t sprouted legs and moved in the meantime
the only thing that moves here is the light
but it changes everything
it' s rather difficult , to say the least
one might almost say unbearable
the only way of enduring it is by keeping a cool head
oh , yes ma' am
i don' t like fantasies , strange ideas , do you know what i mean ?
i think so , ma' am
my children sometimes have strange ideas
but you mustn' t pay any attention to them
children will be children yes , of course , ma' am
alright , you can stay
thank you very much , ma' am
it did happened
the roman governor tried to make them change their minds afterwards ...
to make them change their minds " full stop ...
afterwards ....
he ordered them to be beaten , but justus and pastor , far from being afraid rejoiced and showed themselves willing to die for christ
when he saw this , the roman governor was filled of rage and ordered their heads to be cut off
what do you find so amusing ?
well well what ?
those children were really stupid why ?
because they said they only believed in jesus and then they got killed for it
and what would you have done ?
deny christ ?
well , yes , inside i would' ve believed in him but i wouldn' t have told the romans that
is that what you think too , nicholas ?
i see !
so you both would have lied to the point of denying christ
oh , you would' ve saved your heads being chopped off by the romans , that' s true
but what would' ve happened afterwards ?
when ?
in the next life !
the one that' s waiting for us after we die , where would you have gone ?
oh oh
where , nicholas ?
to the children' s limbo
what is the children' s limbo , anne ?
one of the four hells !
which are ?
me !
me !
me !
me !
no , no , no , let him answer , which are ?
there' s the hell where the damned go then there' s purgatory and the bosom of abraham , where the just go and limbo where children go
at the center of the earth where it' s very , very hot
that' s where children go who tell lies , but they don' t just go there for a few days
oh no !
no !
they' re damned forever !
think about it !
try to imagine the end of eternity
close your eyes , close your eyes and try to imagine it , forever
pain , forever i' m getting dizzy
now do you understand why justus and pastor told the truth ?
right , open your readers at lesson six
can we go and play ?
you most certainly cannot
first you' re going to read the lesson , then you' re going to learn it by heart
all of it ?
anne , any more protests and there will be no playing for you at all today
in fact , i think you can study in separate rooms
no !
no !
no !
no !
yes !
yes !
yes !
yes !
yes !
we get scared if we' re separated
you get scared ?
as if you weren' t used to this house by now
what if we see a ghost ?
has your sister been telling you one of her stories ?
i haven' t told him anything !
well if you see a ghost , you say " hello " and you continue on studying
anne , come with me to the music room
why me ?
because i say so !
now come on ! take your book
nicholas , i want to see that lesson learned in less than an hour
mommy ?
what ?
give me a kiss give me a kiss !
give me a kiss !
anne , wait for me outside you know i can' t
over there
mrs. mills , close all the curtains my daughter is going to cross the living room
yes , ma' am
alright , anne
darling , mommy can' t be with you all the time
you must learn to be on your own , where' s your rosary ?
whenever you feel afraid
i want you to squeeze it with all your might and say " our father
and then your fear will go away it won' t
yes !
yes , it will , honestly
don' t you see that when you do that the lord is with you ?
there' s no reason to be afraid
the house and the family
we all live in a house with our family
the family is usually made up of parents , children , and their grandparents
we must be obedient and kind ... ... and kind towards other members of our family and we must never argue or fight with our brothers and sisters
do you have any children ?
no
mr. tuttle and the girl , lydia , are all i' ve got and i' m all they' ve got
was she born like that ?
beg your pardon , ma' am ?
the girl , was she born a mute ?
no
you know , i think i finished here , ma' am
if you' il excuse me , i think i' il go and see if mr. tuttle needs a hand
nicholas !
nicholas !
i' m coming !
nicholas !
what' s the matter ?
why were you crying ?
i wasn' t crying , i was reading
but i just heard you ...
anne !
anne !
anne !
anne ?
i haven' t learned it yet , mommy are you all right ?
yes
why were you crying ?
i wasn' t crying
but i just heard you a moment ago there' s no need to feel ashamed , darling
i don' t !
if i' d been crying , i' d tell you
oh , really ?
so i imagined it , did i ?
no , it was that boy
what boy ?
victor
who' s victor ?
the boy who was here a moment ago
i told him to let me study but he wouldn' t stop crying
i think he' s a spoiled brat !
he said we have to leave the house
did he now ?
why was he crying ?
because he doesn' t like this house but he has to live here
his father is a pianist ...
oh !
his father is a pianist , is he ?
yes , and i' ve already told him that he' s not allowed to touch the piano
he isn' t , is he , mommy ?
so you' ve spoken to his father as well ?
no , only with victor
his father is with the others in the hall
but i' ve just come from the hall there' s no one there
they must have gone upstairs they' re viewing the house
that' il do , anne !
that' s enough !
now , why were you crying ?
it was victor
so where is he now ?
he went down through there !
would you mind telling me , how a boy can get in and out of this room if it' s locked ?
i thought i made myself quite clear
no door is to be opened without the previous one being closed first
is that so hard to understand ?
this house is like a ship , the light must be contained as if it were water by opening and closing the doors !
my children' s lives are at stake !
but ma' am , i ...
do not argue with me !
be quiet !
now , which was the last of you to enter that room ?
lydia ?
she hasn' t got a key i already told you that
that leaves you then but i was in the hall the whole time and then i went out into the garden you saw me with your own eyes
i hope you are not suggesting that it was me !
do you think that i would overlook such a thing and endanger the life of my own daughter ?
we' re not supposed to read at the table
oh , really ?
and who' s going to tell mommy ?
you ?
or perhaps you !
did you really see a boy ?
yes , he' s called victor
is he a ghost ?
don' t be stupid
ghosts aren' t like that what are they like ?
i' ve told you a thousand times they go about in white sheets and carry chains
how do you know ?
because i' ve seen them , they come out at night
fibber !
where ?
you' re stupid not half as much as you
but i don' t believe you saw that boy
believe what you like , you' il soon be begging us to play with you
nicholas , nicholas what ?
look why have you opened the curtains ?
it wasn' t me !
who was it then ?
it was victor he' s been doing it all night
you' re a liar , i' m going to tell mommy so i' m a liar , am i ?
yes
victor , come out from behind that curtain so my stupid brother can see you !
leave me alone !
so you don' t want to see him now , eh ?
you' re a cowardly custard ... cowardly , cowardly custard , cowardly cowardly custard
well , i' il just have to do it myself , then
that' s enough , victor !
nicholas , nicholas , tell him to leave the curtains alone , he won' t listen to me
stop it !
get off my bed , both of you this is our bed !
no , it' s mine !
anne , please stop putting on that voice
you be quiet , cowardly custard
listen , if you don' t stop i' il call my mother and she' il kick you out
you don' t know my mother and you don' t know my parents !
anne , i' m going to tell mommy about you !
don' t be stupid !
can' t you see it' s not me ?
victor , touch his cheek so he knows you' re real
mommy !
help !
mommy !
help !
what is it ?
what is it ?
what is it ?
she was frightening me and i told her to be quiet
i' m fed up , do you hear me ?
i am fed up with you !
i didn' t do anything
therefore , the lord god sent him forth from the garden of eden to till the ground from whence he was taken
so he drove out the man , and placed at the east of the garden of eden cherubims and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life
there , i' ve finished !
very good
now , you can ask the virgin for forgiveness
what ? !
that' s not what we agreed we didn' t agree anything , young lady
today , you' re being punished and you' il do as i say
you can' t make me ask the virgin for forgiveness
how dare you ?
mommy , i won' t ask forgiveness for something i didn' t do !
you told your brother that there was someone else in the room !
there was !
you' re lying !
i am not !
anne !
anne , do you remember the story about justus and pastor ?
children who don' t tell the truth end up in limbo
that' s what you say
but i read the other day that limbo is only for children who haven' t been baptized
and i have !
and abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon isaac , his son and he took the fire in his hand and a knife and they went both of them together
isaac spoke unto abraham , his father and said : my father and he said : here i am , my son and he ...
did you look in on nicholas ?
yes , ma' am
the little angel is fast asleep
what about anne ?
is she still on the stairs ?
yes , ma' am
i prefer to have her where i can see her but i can' t embroider in such poor light
how long is this punishment going to go on , it' s been three days now
it' s up to her
she' s got to learn to swallow her pride and ask for forgiveness
anyway , it' s about time she started to read the bible
well , the priest will be very pleased to hear that , ma' am
if he ever deigns to pay us another visit
he knows perfectly well that the children can' t go out
he told me yesterday he' il be by as soon as possible
i' m beginning to feel totally cut off from the world
this fog doesn' t exactly help it' s never lasted this long before
that' s true , ma' am even the sea gulls have gone quiet
anne ?
anne , i can' t hear you
incidentally , mrs. mills
i' ve had to put up with the noise of lydia running around above my head
she' s , he' s been hurdling backwards and forth as if there were three of her
would you kindly tell her it' s not necessary to kick up quite such a rumpus just to do a little cleaning
i couldn' t bear to get another migraine attack
i' il tell her , ma' am thank you
now she' s really gone too far , lydia !
lydia !
... on the mount of the lord shall be seen , and the angel of the lord ...
what' s going on up there ?
nothing , mommy
i' m just reading like you told me
did you hear it as well ?
hear what ?
and the angel of the lord called on to abraham out of heaven a second time and said : by myself , i have sworn , saith the lord ...
shhh !
who was that ?
i don' t know
anne , tell me who' s making that noise
i can' t tell you , mommy you tell me
i told you there was someone in the room and you punished me !
now , i don' t know what to say anne , i want the truth
tell me if there is someone upstairs
there , in that junk room
mommy , you' re letting the light in !
she' s what ?
she' s watching
where did they go ?
they just came past here
didn' t you see them ?
which way did they go ?
over there , over there oh , and down there as well
they' re everywhere they say this house is theirs and they said they' re going to take the curtains down as well
ma' am , stay calm , please i will not stay calm !
for five full years during the occupation
i' ve managed to avoid a single nazi ever stepping foot in this house and now there is someone here under my nose , opening and closing the doors !
ma' am , this is a very old house , the floorboards squeak and the plumbing clanks
there were voices , i' m telling you a boy and two women
and they were talking together mommy !
mommy look !
i did it yesterday !
this is the father , this is the mother , this is victor
and this is the old woman what do these numbers stand for ?
that' s the number of times i' ve seen them
i' ve seen the old woman the most
god in heaven !
mrs. mills go and call mr. tuttle
tell him that we have to search the whole house immediately
before it gets dark yes , ma' am
mommy !
yes , darling , it' s alright
nothing is going to happen to you while mommy is here
look , mommy she really scares me
it' s as if she' s not looking at you but she can see you
and she' s always around saying : " come with me
oh , anne , don' t lie to me !
honestly , mommy and she asked me things
victor told me she' s a witch
what did she ask you ?
things
her breath smells
we have to open all the curtains
i don' t want any dark corners where someone could hide
yes , ma' am you both search the right side and i' il take the left then we' il search upstairs
perhaps they' re ghosts who lived in this house before
don' t be stupid , i' ve already told you ghosts go about in white sheets and carry chains and go oooo !
now , anne , why do you make up such stories ?
i don' t , i read them in books
well , you shouldn' t believe everything that you read in books
that' s what our mother says
she says that all this stuff about ghosts is rubbish and then she expects us to believe everything written in the bible
and don' t you believe it ?
i believe some things
but , for example , i don' t believe that god made the world in seven days
and i don' t believe that noah got all those animals into one boat or the holy spirit is a dove
no , i don' t believe that either doves are anything but holy
they pooh on our windows
have you mentioned any of this to your mother ?
ma' am yes ?
we' ve searched everywhere , ma' am , there' s no one
i see
mrs. mills ?
yes , ma' am ?
do you have any idea what this might be ?
it' s a photograph album , ma' am no but look , they' re all asleep
look they' re not asleep , ma' am , they' re dead
it is a book of the dead
in the last century , i believe they used to take photographs of the dead in the hopes that their souls would go on living through the portraits
there are even group portraits
and children !
oh , it' s macabre !
how could these people be so superstitious ?
grief over the death of a loved one can lead people to do the strangest things
get rid of it , i don' t want it in the house
yes , ma' am
mrs. mills , it' s cold why don' t you come and sit by the fire ?
thank you very much , ma' am
so , tell me about when you worked here before
did you have to look after children then as well ?
no , i was in charge of organizing the house work
were there many servants ?
oh , about fifteen
though in the end , there were just the three of us left
why ?
my employers moved to london
they came here less and less it ... being so out of the way like
so gradually the house just became empty
everybody ends up leaving this damned island
my family left in the summer of 1940 just before the invasion
that was the last i' ve heard of them
i don' t blame them
naturally , we left too
although , you know , sometimes when you leave a place it' s like it' s there with you all the time
i always felt like i never left this house
why did you leave ?
oh , it was on account of the tuberculosis , the whole area was evacuated
was that when lydia went dumb ?
yes , i think so
though you know , my memory is a bit rusty these days , ma' am
what happened to her ?
well , suddenly one day , she just ... stopped talking
well , there must have been a reason , people don' t just stop talking
these things are always the result of some sort of trauma
something must have happened to her
did your employers treat you well ?
oh , they were always very kind to us , they treated us just like family
you know , ma' am , i think i will go to bed
i' il never be able to get up in the morning
off you go , i' m going to stay here a while longer
yes , ma' am
i' m sorry i was so hard on you
can you forgive me ?
anne ?
mommy ?
what ?
when is daddy coming home ?
when the war is over
why did he go to war ?
i mean , nobody has done anything bad to us
daddy went ... daddy went because he' s very brave and because he wasn' t prepared to let the germans tell him what he had to do
why ?
charles !
where are you ?
mrs. mills !
mrs. mills !
what' s the matter , ma' am ?
the key to the music room !
give it to me
quickly !
what' s happening , ma' am ?
come on !
oh my god !
i checked that room myself , it was empty
take these tablets ma' am
and yet ...
they will do you good
and yet i felt as if there was someone else there and it wasn' t human
there is something in this house , something diabolic
ma' am something which is not ... not at rest
i know you don' t believe it , you don' t believe it , do you ?
i don' t blame you , i , i used to not believe these things
i do believe it , ma' am i' ve always believed in those things
oh , they' re not easy to explain but they do happen
we' ve all heard stories of the beyond now and then and i think that sometimes the world of the dead gets mixed up with the world of the living
but it' s impossible the lord would never allow such an aberration
the living and the dead they will only meet at the end of eternity
it says so in the bible
ma' am , there isn' t always an answer for everything
where are you off to , ma' am ?
i' m going to the village to pay father legrand a visit
if he won' t come here then i shall go to him , i shall bring him back
ma' am you should wait till the weather improves
i' ve waited long enough
ma' am , the priest told me that ...
i don' t care what he told you
i want him to tell me personally
he must come today but what are you going to tell him ?
we have searched every room in there inch by inch and now i need them to be blessed
ma' am , please wait it is still very early
mr. tuttle good morning , ma' am
i need you to search the whole garden for gravestones
gravestones ?
yes
when my husband bought this house we were told there was a little cemetery
i think it was somewhere over there among the trees
i' ve not seen anything check carefully
they could be overgrown yes , ma' am
i need to know if there was a family buried here and if they had a little boy , victor
now she thinks the house is haunted
do you think it' s safe to let her go ?
oh , don' t worry , the fog won' t let her get very far
oh , yes , the fog !
the fog , of course !
and when ... when do you think we should bring all this out into the open ?
all in good time , mr. tuttle , all in good time
speaking of which ...
charles ?
grace
you' re here !
you' re here !
they said there was no hope
they said i should give you up for dead
they say a lot of things
thank you !
thank you , god !
thank you !
every night i' ve prayed for this ! begging god to bring you back
bring my children their father back !
but where have you been all this time ?
out there , looking for my home
you' re so different !
so different !
sometimes i bleed
ma' am ?
mrs. mills , this is my husband
i' m very pleased to meet you , sir he' s very weak
i want you to prepare a hot bath and some clean clothes
and something to eat right away , ma' am
hello , my little ones
daddy !
why did you take so long ?
hello , nicholas
i told you , you see ?
i told you he' il come back !
have you both been well behaving ?
we' ve been very good
have you been good to your mother ?
very good
we study every day for our first communion
daddy , did you kill anyone ?
oh , here he comes
darling , we' ve prepared lunch for you !
are you coming down or would you prefer that ...
when is daddy coming down ?
be patient , anne
daddy is ... not well
he said he' d seen a lots of dead men
mommy , when people die in the war where do they go ?
what a question !
it depends
on what ?
well , on whether they fought on the side of the goodies or the baddies
your father , for example , fought for england on the side of the goodies
how do you know who the goodies and the baddies are ?
that' s enough questions , eat your food you' il never go to war
we' il never go anywhere
oh , you' re not missing out on anything
you' re much better off at home with your mommy and your daddy who love you very , very much
and the intruders ?
there are no intruders here
but you said that there were ...
no , i said that there are no intruders here and i don' t want to hear another word on the subject
but you said ...
that is enough !
can i say something ?
no !
why not ?
because ... because you can' t
anne , stop breathing like that
you heard me !
stop it !
stop breathing !
right !
you go to your room !
go to your room !
there' s no dessert for you today !
oh !
no crying , now !
no crying !
oh , stop that , look what an awful face you' ve got when you cry
i don' t care !
there !
there !
you listen to me
i' ve seen them too you have ?
yes
then why don' t you tell my mother ?
then maybe she' il believe me
there are things your mother doesn' t want to hear
she only believes in what she was taught
but don' t worry , sooner or later she' il see them
then everything will be different how ?
oh , you' il see !
there are going to be some big surprises
there are going to be ... changes changes ?
now she' s behaving as if nothing had happened
what about her daughter ?
oh , she' s not so stubborn
the children will be easier to convince
no , it' s the mother who' s going to cause us problems
but do you think her husband suspects anything ?
no , i don' t think he even knows where he is
ah !
look what a pretty daughter i' ve got
mommy made this veil especially for you
i look like a bride yes , you do
i need to shorten the sleeves a little
you can take it off now no !
anne , this dress has to be spotless for your first communion
i promise i won' t dirty it
just let me wear for a little longer , just a little !
oh !
just a little !
alright , i' il be back shortly
no sitting on the floor , no leaning against the walls
no !
monsieur , would you like to dance ?
i' d love to !
charles , you can' t go on like this
you must eat something
in the sky , i don' t know if it' s cloudy or white ...
but i only have eyes for you , dear the moon may be high ...
anne , you need to take the dress off now
anne , are you listening to me ?
anne ?
what did i tell you about sitting on the floor ?
but it' s clean
it makes no difference why can' t you ever do as you' re told ...
what' s the matter ?
where is my daughter ?
what have you done with my daughter ?
are you mad ?
i am your daughter !
you' re not !
you' re not my daughter !
you' re not my daughter !
no !
no !
ma' am , i heard shouts !
she wants to kill me !
she won' t stop until she kills us !
she won' t stop !
she won' t stop until she kills us
hush , child , come with me you' re wicked !
you' re wicked !
wicked !
how is she ?
there' s no calming her
so i left her with her father she insisted on speaking with him
what happened ?
why did you fight ?
it wasn' t her !
it was the old woman with the strange eyes
she was imitating my daughter' s voice
i swear to god that it wasn' t my daughter !
oh god !
god , help me !
god help me !
what' s the matter with me ?
i don' t know what' s the matter with me
you must get more rest
you can' t take on the whole responsibility of this house
leave it to us we know what has to be done
what do you mean by that ?
what do you mean you know what has to be done ?
nothing , ma' am i was just suggesting ...
there' s nothing to suggest
who do you think you are ?
you have no idea what has to be done !
or do you ...
what are these ?
the tablets for your migraine , ma' am , the ones you always take
please , i need to be on my own
yes , ma' am
come , child
anne told me everything
i wish i had an explanation but i haven' t
first i thought there was someone else in the house even thought that they were ghosts
i' m not talking about the ghosts i' m talking about what happened that day
i don' t know what you' re talking about tell me it' s not true
tell me what happened happened ?
i don' t know what came over me that day , i ...
the servants had left during the night they hadn' t the courage to tell me to my face
and they knew that i couldn' t leave the house
they knew !
anne ?
anne , what happened ?
she hit me
she went mad like she did that day , do you remember ?
no
you must forgive me , charles not me , the children
they know that i love them they know i' d never hurt them
i' d die first !
what are you going to do ?
are you angry with me ?
i just came back to say goodbye to my wife and children
now i must go go where ?
to the front the war is over !
the war is not over what are you talking about ?
you' re not going !
do you hear me ?
you left us once already !
you can' t go !
why ?
why did you have to go to that stupid war that had nothing to do with us ? !
why couldn' t you have stayed here like the others did ?
they surrendered we all surrendered !
the whole island was occupied what .. what did you expect ?
what were you trying to prove by going to war ?
your place was here with us , your family
i loved you , that was enough for me
living in this darkness , in this prison
but not for you i wasn' t enough for you
that' s why you left
it wasn' t just the war
you want to leave me , don' t you ?
grace
anne !
nicholas !
what is it ?
oh my god !
oh my god !
no !
where are the curtains ?
mrs. mills !
let me see !
let me see !
oh , you' re alright !
you' re alright !
i want my daddy
daddy' s gone it' s not true !
yes , it is , it is true
i love you , mommy
find the curtains
who was it ?
who did this ?
tell me !
tell me !
you know what' s happening here ! you know because it happened to you too !
now tell me !
write it down !
write it down !
please !
that attitude won' t solve anything , ma' am
anyway , she can' t write
where are they ?
what ?
the curtains !
the curtains my children' s lives depend on !
someone has taken the curtains !
i have noticed , ma' am , there' s no need for you to raise your voice
oh , mr. tuttle , i was just on the point of calling you
did you know that someone has taken all the curtains ?
the curtains ?
oh , dear !
why should anyone want to take all the curtains ?
oh , to let some daylight into this house , i imagine
daylight , of course
someone wants to kill my children
now why do you think that the daylight would kill them ?
are you mad ?
i told you !
i already told you , the children are photosensitive , the light will kill them !
yes , but that was before , the condition could' ve cleared up by itself
i mean , if you never expose them to daylight , how do you know they' re not cured ?
my sister in law used to get terrible attacks of rheumatism in her legs and back
then one fine day ... they disappeared
i' m going to find those curtains and when you have finished helping me hang them , you will leave this house
and what about the master , ma' am ?
what does he have to say about all of this ?
give me your keys !
i want your keys now !
i know what you want , you want to frighten us
you want to get us out me and my children
you' ve wanted to take over this house ever since the first day you arrived
now , you give me those keys , i will not ask again
you should try and calm down , ma' am give me the keys !
give them to me !
and now , get out of here
you know something , mr. tuttle ?
i think i' ve reached the end of my tether
what about you ?
oh , yes , definitely
we' d better go and uncover the gravestones
what' s mommy doing ?
i' ve already told you she' s gone mad
liar !
she' s gone mad !
liar !
liar !
she' s gone mad !
she' s gone mad !
she' s gone mad !
liar !
liar !
liar !
night time where are you going ?
i' ve had enough
i' m going to the woods to look for daddy
are you going to run away ?
if i hang on to the pipe , i can climb down to the ground , it' s very easy
if mommy finds out you' re in for it
yes , yes , yes
anne , wait !
i want to come and look for daddy too
liar , you just don' t want to be left on your own , scaredypants , scaredypants !
be quiet !
anne , i think we' ve gotten lost
we still haven' t left the garden yet , silly
i' m scared you shouldn' t have come , then
say something what shall i say ?
i don' t know , anything
let' s see , my name is anne and i' m walking
i' m walking and my name is anne ...
what' s that over there ?
i think they' re graves don' t go near !
why not ?
what if a ghost jumps out ?
graves don' t have ghosts only skeletons
there' s something written here let' s go !
wait !
anne , what does it say ?
you must be strong now , children nicholas , come here !
mrs. mills , please don' t tell mommy we' ve run away
don' t speak to them !
why ?
they' re dead !
what ?
they' re ghosts , please come here !
children !
nicholas !
if they' re ghosts , why aren' t they wearing sheets and clanking chains ?
you said that ...
i don' t care what i said !
get away from them
you' re always teasing me and telling lies
and i' m sick of it !
i' m not teasing you !
i' m telling the truth !
come here !
quick !
children !
run !
run !
go !
into the house !
don' t come any closer !
don' t move !
don' t trouble yourself , ma' am tuberculosis finished us off more than half a century ago
go away !
open the door ma' am , please what do you want ?
mommy , don' t open the door , don' t
we' ve seen their graves go upstairs and hide
go on !
i' m scared !
don' t separate
oh , anne ... whatever you do don' t separate !
go hide !
go !
go !
we' ve been trying to make you understand understand what ?
about the house ... about the new situation
what situation ?
we must all learn to live together , the living and the dead
if you' re dead , leave us in peace !
leave us in peace !
leave us in peace !
in here , get inside
and suppose we do leave you , do you think they will ?
who ?
the intruders
there are no intruders they took the curtains down
there are no intruders oh , yes , i assure you it was them
and now they' re in there with you and the children
waiting for you no !
yes !
and believe me , sooner or later , they' il find you
listen , wait here and i' il be back in a minute
no , no , no , mommy said we shouldn' t separate
i can' t leave her on her own
stop breathing like that !
nicholas , stop breathing like that !
stop breathing !
can' t you hear it ?
there' s someone there
come with us ...
come with us
nicholas ?
anne ?
where are you ?
answer me !
the intruders have found them there' s nothing we can do now
you' il have to go upstairs and talk to them
our father , who art in heaven hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come , thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven
give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses
why are you afraid , children ?
why don' t you want us to be your friends ?
come on , speak to us , speak to us
tell me what happened
don' t tell her !
don' t tell her !
don' t ... tell ... her
if i tell her , they' il leave us in peace
mommy !
mommy
why are you crying , children ?
what happened in this room ?
what did your mother do to you ?
something about a pillow is that how she killed you ?
with a pillow ?
she didn' t kill us !
children , if you' re dead why do you remain in this house ?
we' re not dead !
why do you remain in this house ?
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
why do you remain in this house ?
we' re not dead !
" we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
we' re not dead !
are you all right ?
yes , just a bit dizzy , that' s all
what happened ?
they made contact
all three ?
apparently
yes , the mother and the two children
quite interesting , don' t you think ?
interesting ?
i was scared out of my wits !
darling , calm down
no !
so far we have handled this matter your way
but now , you listen to me , we can' t possibly stay in this house any longer
it is quite clear that these beings do not want us to live here !
we don' t know anything about them yet
yes , we do !
we know the woman went mad , smothered her two children and then shot herself
that' s quite enough , think of our son !
there' s nothing wrong with victor !
yes there is !
he has nightmares !
he says he has seen that girl !
and even this lady has been possessed by her !
please , let us leave this house !
all right , we will leave tomorrow morning
oh , thank god for that i' il just go and check on victor
once again , thank you so much for coming
a pleasure , i hope we' ve been of some help
oh yes , of course but i must admit that was not the most ...
at first i couldn' t understand what the pillow was doing in my hands
and why you didn' t move but then i knew ...
it had happened !
i' d killed my children
i got the rifle , i put it to my forehead and i pulled the trigger
nothing ...
then i heard your laughter in the bedroom
you were playing with the pillows as if nothing had happened
and i thought ... the lord , in his great mercy was giving me another chance telling me " don' t give up
be strong , be a good mother ... for them
but now ... now
what does all this mean ?
where are we ?
young lydia said the very same thing when she realized the 3 of us were dead
and that was the last time she ever spoke
but i couldn' t tell you that before now
shall i make us a nice cup of tea , ma' am ?
the intruders are leaving , but others will come
now sometimes we' il sense them and other times we won' t
but that' s the way it' s always been
ma' am
mommy ... daddy died in the war , didn' t he ?
yes will we ever see him again ?
i don' t know
if we' re dead , where' s limbo ?
i don' t know if there even is a limbo
i' m no wiser than you are but i do know that i love you
i' ve always loved you
this house is ours this house is ours
this house is ours this house is ours
this house is ours this house is ours
mommy ... look it doesn' t hurt anymore
no one can make us leave this house
come along , victor
ripped and checked by triplea
