slow down , my queen .
why so ?
are you not happy that unwonted joy now fills my breast ?
can you not see ?
m y prison cell is the open sk y .
i longed so for this !
oh !
how dear is the delight that now surrounds me !
know you not that sorrow , sorrow awaits you within those walls ?
on the meadows fragrant and fair appears the family of flowers and smiles , yes , smiles for me , and the breeze , returning from
france' s sweet shores , tells me to rejoice as in the happy days of my first youth .
oh cloud !
lightly drifting in the sk y , you bear my affection , you carry my sighs to the blessed land that once nurtured me .
ah !
kindly stoop , gather me in your wings ,
take me to that land , lift me away from my torments !
yet the cruel cloud flees too towards the blessed land that once nurtured me .
what sounds !
to the woods , to the hunt !
the stag appears ...
what voices !
i think it is the royal hunt !
the sounds come nearer ...
the steeds ...
the queen !
ah !
the queen !
that dreaded name !
the tyrant is wandering through the park .
in the peace of my melancholy rest she will strike me with a new shock .
i asked her , yet dare not see her ,
i cannot find this courage in my breast !
let her stay , stay upon the beloved throne , and her gaze be far from me , too sorely am i despised ; pity for me lies mute in everyone' s heart .
she is coming .
let us run , run .
run ; my heart cannot bear this .
her heart cannot bear this , no !
i n the peace of my melancholy rest she will strike me with a new shock .
i asked her , yet dare not see her ,
i cannot find this courage in my breast !
let her stay , stay upon the beloved throne , and her gaze be far from me , too sorely am i despised ; pity for me lies mute in everyone' s heart .
ah !
d oes joy deceive me ?
leicester , is it you ?
you ?
he who adores you has come to break your chains .
shall i finally be free of my prison ?
free ?
and yours for ever ?
m y troubled heart can scarce believe it .
elizabeth is coming here , to her royal presence the hunt offers an excuse .
you must appear submissive ...
submissive to her !
today you must .
oh heavens !
what must i hear ?
ah , spare me this dreadful sight !
i f you love me , ah !
stay .
m ust i ?
and you must hope .
abandoned by all
prey to cruel pain , oppressed , forsaken , what hope is in my heart ?
i am condemned to weep , to sigh for ever ; your love alone can quiet my woes .
you must not mistrust ; she is greater on her throne ... ... her heart was moved by your letter ...
what are you saying ? ... in her eye i glimpsed ... ... a tear appearing .
ah !
i f you listen to me , and trust in me ... ... you will see that all will change .
i am convinced , convinced of her heart !
yet often it holds mercy and pity .
not for her who casts a shadow over her throne !
no , do you think so ?
then i myself , if she be deaf to your prayers shall take my own revenge .
what are you saying ?
what can you do ?
e xpose yourself to risk for me !
ah , i would not have this .
i shall take my own revenge .
ah !
i f ever my heart trembled at the cruel sight of death , do not make me tremble for your life .
all that i wish , all i seek is to see you , true and grateful ; for you do i wish that my condition were not so wretched .
yes , faith , honour binds it ; and my heart which loves you swears it .
you will rise up from the misfortune that robs you of all your glory .
and if then i cannot offer you a throne , or the hand of a sovereign then i shall offer you the hand that released you from prison .
d o not open yourself to risk .
i swear that you will rise up from misfortune .
ah !
no !
yes , faith .
ah !
i do not wish yes , faith , honour binds it ...
ah !
d o not make me tremble for your life .
yes , faith and honour bind me .
you will rise up from the misfortune
what place is this ?
fotheringhay .
oh , earl !
where do you see me ?
have no doubt ; presently m ary will be led into your presence by wise talbot .
to what sacrifice do i stoop for you !
d o you see ?
remove the hunters from the adjacent avenues ; the people' s path is too busy .
you see , my queen , how anglia adores you .
ah !
you know it demands you to be its head .
silence .
ah !
remember that to bring comfort to the sorrowing life of a sister
i led you .
the hand that brought her squalor can give her again the happiness of yesterday .
i abhor her !
he recalls only her .
c ome .
ah !
leave me .
take me back to my shelter .
here she is .
oh god .
she is still the same , haughty , proud ; with her magnificent spirit she fills me with fury ; but hush now ; she is oppressed by just terror .
on the face of that tyrant i see the mark of her fierce sentence , and dread malice .
m y spirit is oppressed by cruel fear .
ah !
receive her .
i would fain flee her .
d o not hold back .
the abyss stands before me .
too proud is she .
b eaten down by cruel fate she stands wretched before you .
d ead to the world , and dead to the throne ,
i am prostrate at your feet
i beg only your forgiveness , be not unrelenting
ah !
sister , be satisfied now with the outrages you have inflicted on me !
alas !
raise a miserable maiden who counts on your heart .
pay no heed , i implore you , to her false lips .
no , that station suits you in dust and shame .
suffering .
who has made you so cruel to me ?
who ?
you yourself ; your soul , that haughty soul , vile , iniquitous ...
and shall i suffer this ?
shall i ?
go , ask this , oh wretch ,
of the betrayed bed of the unavenged ghost of that wretched husband ; ask it of your arm , your wicked heart which midst the dalliance of love did plot crimes and betrayal and nought but treachery .
ah !
robert !
i can take no more .
ah !
have a little faith , i beg you ...
call upon your constancy ! ... to her false lips .
s ome hope is left yet .
you shall not pay with honour and your life for a pardon granted to you , a favour which our love was oft denied by heaven .
what words in my presence !
you , robert ?
what shall i say ?
where is the charm of love , and that face so fair ?
i f all long to praise it for favours as a reward ; but on the stuart' s head eternal shame has fallen again .
ah !
robert !
oh god !
hold back !
i can take no more .
what an insult !
oh wrongful mockery !
what insult !
tremble , tremble !
i mpure daughter of b oleyn ,
can you speak of dishonour ?
obscene , unworthy whore , my shame falls upon you , the soil of england is defiled , vile bastard , by your foot !
ho , guards !
what words are these ?
she rants !
there is no more hope for her !
on your despised head i shall cast infamy .
drag away the wild creature who has condemned herself !
ah , reckless one , i lose you , when i sought to save you .
when i came back to you in true faith destiny struck us down .
yes , be silent , tremble , tremble , all hope now is lost .
drag her away !
lead me now to death ; i shall challenge my final lot .
one single moment of triumph has repaid all my torment .
