mosfllm
artistic association of writers and cinema workers
natalya bondarchuk
donatas banlonls
yuri yarvet
vladlslav dvorzhetsky
nlkolai grlnko
anatoly solonltsyn
in
solarls
based on the science fiction novel by stanislaw lem
screenplay by f. gorenshteln , a. tarkovsky
directed by andrei tarkovsky
director of photography vadim yusov
production designer mikhail romadln
music by eduard artemyev
sound by semyon lltvlnov
solarls part one
chris !
come here !
you' re just in time .
he takes a walk every morning for at least an hour .
he has been working too hard , all night sometimes .
this science of solaristics of his !
he reminds me of a bookkeeper making up his accounts .
we expected you yesterday .
he wanted to run away when he saw me .
hello !
how do you do ?
i guess i shouldn' t have bothered you today .
how old we have grown !
i' m only now beginning to realize it .
everything will depend on his initial report from the station .
every message we receive is confusing or incomprehensible .
if he confirms for us that the study shouldn' t continue , the station can be taken out of solaris' s orbit .
i understand .
you promised to talk to him .
i' ve brought the film .
yes , of course .
would you mind keeping the boy for a few days ?
anna will be pleased to have him .
she' il have more free time now .
when does he leave ?
by this time tomorrow , he' il already be gone .
it' s very pleasant here .
this house looks like my grand father' s house .
i liked it very much .
and so we built this one just like it .
i don' t care much for new things .
well , i better get going .
i' ve an awful lot to do .
don' t you want to see this ?
i' ve already seen it many times .
twenty one days after the launch of our expedition , radio biologist vishnyakov and physicist fechner went on an exploration mission over the solaris ocean in an air vehicle .
when they failed to return , we ordered a search .
the fog was too dense , and we had to call the search off .
all of the rescue craft returned to the station except the helicopter piloted by burton .
he came back only after the dark had set in .
he immediately ran to his quarters , obviously in a state of shock .
it was so unusual for a man who had been flying for 1 1 years .
he had recovered in a couple of days , but he would never leave the station .
and he refused to approach the window overlooking the ocean .
while under medical care in a clinic he offered to make a statement of great importance , one which he felt could affect the whole future of project solaris .
very well , let' s hear his story .
now is the time to let burton talk .
the first time i descended below a thousand feet ,
i had trouble maintaining altitude , because the wind had come up .
all my efforts were required in operating the ship .
i wasn' t watching outside .
as a result , i entered the fog bank .
was that an ordinary fog ?
it was like nothing i' d ever seen before .
it seemed to be a colloidal substance , a gluey mass .
all the windows were coated .
because of the fog' s resistance i began to lose altitude .
where i supposed the sun would be , the fog glowed like fire .
half an hour later , i emerged into a large open space .
the patch was round , about a few hundred meters across .
at that moment i observed great changes in the ocean .
the water became still , and the surface looked transparent .
a sort of yellow mucus started to congeal under it .
when it rose up , it glistened like glass .
then it began to boil , and a frothy crust appeared on top .
the surface was brown like burned sugar syrup .
this substance solidified into big lumps , giving shape to all sorts of figures .
i was being drawn to the fog bank , so i had to struggle against this force for some time .
when i looked down again ,
i saw a sort of garden .
a garden ?
quiet , please .
i could see vegetation , hedges , acacia trees , narrow paths .
all of this same substance .
and all these trees and plants , did they have leaves ?
those bushes , acacias ?
they looked like they were made of plastic , but in real life proportions .
all of a sudden cracks started to appear .
the boiling began again , all was in froth .
you' il be able to see it for yourselves .
everything i saw will be on the film .
then i suggest we interrupt the hearing and look at it with our own eyes .
yes , show us the film .
it' s very interesting .
is that all ?
yes , that' s all there is .
but we don' t understand .
your film is nothing but clouds !
that must be the fog i was talking about .
i' m as surprised as you are .
all this might be the result of the bio magnetic current of the solaris ocean acting on burton' s conscience .
we know these currents to be not only a gigantic cerebral system , but also to be capable of generating thought .
that is a hypothesis that has not been confirmed .
weren' t you ill on that particular day ?
oh , this next part is pointless .
we' il pick up here . ... i saw something floating .
i thought that it looked like fechner' s space suit .
i kept circling the spot to make sure i wouldn' t lose sight of it .
suddenly i could see the form rise slightly , as iftreading the waters .
i could see the man , he wasn' t wearing a space suit , and he moved .
you mean it was human ?
yes , human .
you saw his face ?
yes .
what man ?
who was he ?
it was an infant .
did you recognize it ?
i' d never seen it before .
when i circled nearer , what i saw was monstrous .
what do you mean ?
at first i couldn' t make it out , but then it became clear that it was incredibly huge .
it was twelve feet tall .
its eyes were blue , its hair was dark .
if you' re not feeling well , we can recess the hearing .
i will continue .
it was absolutely naked , as if new born .
and it was moist , or rather slippery .
its skin was glistening .
it rose and fell with the waves , but it was moving by itself .
the whole thing was repugnant .
wait a minute , there isn' t very much more .
... burton' s statements would appear to be the expression of a hallucinatory complex , induced by atmospheric influences of the planet , plus obscure symptoms to which the brain' s cortical substance contributed in some measure through the excitation of associated zones .
this report in no way reflects the actual facts .
or almost in no way .
there' s a different opinion offered by professor messenger who believes that the information supplied by burton could be true and needs to be thoroughly studied .
i saw everything i described with my own eyes !
i would dare to venture another opinion .
we are on the verge of an immense discovery , and it would be unwise to be influenced by the fact that we base our decision upon the observations of an unqualified layman .
every explorer may well envy this pilot , his presence of mind , his talents of observation .
moreover , given the recent information , we are bound morally to press forward with our probes .
i can understand how professor messenger feels , however let' s look back at the long road we' ve traveled .
for all our work , the solaris probes are back where we began .
years of effort have proven useless .
all we know about solaris reminds me of a mountain of separate facts which we are unable to squeeze into the framework of any conception .
well , we' re even worse off today , as regards the essential .
solaristics is degenerating .
the essential question is far more serious than just solaristics .
we' re probing the very frontier of human knowledge .
by artificially establishing a knowledge frontier , we limit our concept of the infinity of man' s knowledge .
and if our movement is not forward , do we not risk moving backward ?
what do you mean by saying that the information supplied by me is in no way reflects the actual facts ?
i saw all this with my own eyes .
it means that some real phenomena could have triggered your hallucinating .
in windy weather it' s very easy to mistake a swinging bush for a living creature .
to say nothing of a strange planet !
there' s nothing offending in it for you .
what action are you going to take in view of prof. messenger' s opinion ?
practically none at all .
our research in this area will be discontinued .
i have a statement to make .
it' s not my reputation but the spirit of the expedition that you offend ...
well , et cetera ...
it' s considered to be good manners now to laugh whenever burton' s report is mentioned .
we' ve known you a long time , but still i know so little about you .
you were very handsome then .
you don' t mean that , but thanks anyway .
well , chris , what do you think about all this ?
i would like to speak to your son alone .
i hate to look like an idiot before you once more .
i' il wait for you outside by the swing .
he looks ridiculous , your burton .
don' t say that .
he' s obviously ill at ease .
he feels he' s intruding on us .
if he decided to come , it' s because he considers the matter so important .
i didn' t want to see outsiders today any more than you did .
we don' t talk to each other often enough .
it' s good to hear you say that .
even on the last day .
the last day ...
when the farewells are overdone , you feel awful afterwards .
let' s meet after dinner .
we need to talk .
and still , why did you invite this burton fellow today of all days ?
where are the guests going to sleep ?
upstairs , i guess .
well , i' il be down by the swing .
but perhaps ...
just a second .
the question of where they' re going to sleep can wait !
listen , chris ...
what' s the matter ?
what is it down there , standing in the garage and looking at me ?
it' s just a horse .
i' ve seen it already .
come on !
he' s very gentle .
look how beautiful he is !
i think that solaristics is at an impasse as a result of irresponsible fantasizing .
i' m only interested in truth , but you want to convince me of your point of view .
i can' t draw conclusions based on " reasons of heart " .
i' m not a poet .
my problem is simple : either end the research , withdrawing the station from orbit and legalizing the crisis in solaristics , or take extreme measures ,
like bombarding the ocean with high intensity beams .
no , not that !
didn' t you want to continue the research at any price ?
and you want to destroy that which we aren' t capable of understanding ?
no , i don' t advocate knowledge at any price .
knowledge is only valid when it rests on a foundation of morality .
man is the only agent who renders science immoral .
don' t forget hiroshima .
then don' t make science immoral !
it' s strange ...
there' s nothing strange about it .
even you can' t be sure that all you had seen weren' t just hallucinations .
thank you for your time .
we have nothing more to say to each other .
is anything the matter ?
i' m leaving .
leaving ?
he is a bookkeeper , not a scientist .
we' re friends , burton , but you shouldn' t say that about him !
we' ve known each other for 20 years .
it had to end someday , i guess .
are you leaving the child ?
why did you have to offend him ?
you' re heartless .
it' s dangerous to send your kind to the cosmos .
everything is far too fragile there !
the earth somehow manages to put up with men of your sort , though at what cost to humanity !
are you jealous of the fact that he will be the one to bury me , not you ?
it' d been established that the solaris ocean is a peculiar kind of brain .
later , even a more daring hypothesis was put forward , that is the ocean is a thinking substance .
for years this hypothesis could not have been substantiated .
this program is about solaris .
very few true believers have remained .
first of all , they are those who are connected with the station .
on the station for a 85 strong crew , only three men are still working .
they are astrobiologist sartorius , cyberneticist snout and physiologist guibariane who is dealing with the problem ...
i' m calling from the city .
burton !
anna , please , we need to talk .
what i talked to chris about was not important .
i should have told him about messenger who had a different opinion at that meeting .
he got very much interested in fechner who died in solaris ocean .
it turned out that fechner has an orphaned son , he had left his family .
messenger and i paid a visit to fechner' s widow .
i saw this child with my own eyes .
you never told me about that .
i didn' t have a chance .
all right , what about it ?
he looked exactly like the child i' d seen on solaris .
except that he wasn' t twelve feet tall .
it wouldn' t be good for him to think about it before the launch , but he should remember this when he' s there .
there' s no point in keeping these .
the only ones to be kept are those in my room .
all my research notes , my thesis ...
i wonder why we kept all these ?
should something happens , i' il find someone to take care of them .
oh , don' t look for the film with the campfire .
i' m taking it with me .
oh , sure , do that ...
ready , kelvin ?
ready !
you have nothing to worry about .
have a good trip .
when is the lift off ?
you' re already under way !
station solaris !
can you do something ?
i seem to be losing stability .
where are you all ?
you' ve got company !
doctor snout ?
snout ?
i' m kelvin , psychologist .
it appears you weren' t expecting me .
did you receive the radiogram ?
yes , certainly .
why are you so upset ?
i' m sorry ...
where is guibariane ?
and sartorius ?
sartorius is in his quarters .
guibariane is dead .
dead ?
he committed suicide ...
i knew guibariane .
it' s not like him to ...
he was in a state of profound depression .
since these mysterious disorders began ...
maybe you' d better rest , take a bath .
you may take any room .
come here in an hour .
i' m impatient to meet with guibariane ...
i mean sartorius .
i doubt if he' il let you in .
he' s up in his laboratory .
listen , i' m aware that something extraordinary has happened , and perhaps i ...
doctor kelvin ...
you see ...
please , come in an hour .
go now , and rest .
now there' re only three of us on the station : you , me and sartorius .
you know what we look like from our photographs .
if you see anything out of the ordinary , not me or sartorius , try not to lose your head .
what would i see ?
that depends on you .
hallucinations ?
no ... but don' t forget .
forget what ?
that we' re not on earth .
why don' t we have our talk tonight ?
no , let' s make it tomorrow morning !
a. gulbarlane
human belng
to c. kelvln
hello , chris .
i still have a little time left .
there' re certain things i must tell you , that i must warn you about .
i suppose you' ve been told what happened to me .
if not , snout or sartorius can tell you the details .
what happened to me , it matters little .
the trouble is that no one can really explain it .
i' m afraid that what' s happened to me is only a beginning .
i wouldn' t wish it , of course , but it may happen to all of you .
here , it may happen to anyone , for sure .
but don' t think that i' ve gone mad .
you know me well .
if i have enough time , i' il tell you why i did this .
if it does happen to you , you will know it' s not madness .
that' s the main thing .
as for continuing our program of research ,
i' m of the same opinion as sartorius .
bombard the plasma of the ocean by high powered x rays .
it' s prohibited , but there' s no other choice .
we or rather you will be drawn in .
it may offer a way to break this deadlock .
it' s your only chance to establish contact with this monster .
there' s no other solution left .
if you ...
doctor sartorius , my name is kelvin .
i arrived two hours ago .
look , i' m in a ridiculous situation here .
either you open up , or i' il break the door !
all right , i' il open the door , but don' t come in .
i' il come out .
my name is kelvin .
you must have heard of me .
i worked with guibariane .
dr. snout told me about guibariane ...
i can' t believe it .
so , you know the story .
yes , it' s horrible .
i have no details , i only know he' s dead .
all of us may die .
but he insisted upon being buried on the earth .
guibariane wanted to be in the earth , with the worms .
have you ever heard of burton ?
yes , he was on the search party for fechner .
fechner died a magnificent death , and guibariane was a coward .
please ...
he' s dead !
whyjudge him ?
duty to the truth is the only concern that should count .
you are misguided in your search .
look ...
this courage you pretend to is only inhumanity .
go away .
you' re obviously overemotional .
you must adapt yourself .
good health to you .
i saw sartorius and we spoke .
i don' t find him very likable .
he' s a very talented scientist .
i' m afraid i don' t feel so well .
there' s nothing wrong with you , but you won' t listen to advice .
aside from the three of us , is there anyone else on the station ?
did you see anything ?
what were you warning me against ?
what did you see ?
a human being ?
was she real ?
can she be touched or felt , or wounded , hurt ?
when did you see her the last time , today ?
and you , how do i know who you are ?
shhh ...
where did she come from ?
leave me alone !
you' re afraid ...
don' t worry , i' m not going to think you' re insane .
me , insane ?
oh god , you know so little ...
madness would be a blessing !
snout , listen ...
it' s all so absurd .
they don' t understand anything .
they' re sure that i' ve gone mad .
though it' s something like insanity , i' ve got to do this .
i' m afraid that snout and sartorius will try to force their way in .
they don' t understand what they' re doing .
i' m frightened , chris ...
i can' t ...
no one will ever understand ...
guibariane , open the door !
don' t be a fool !
that' s us , snout and sartorius !
we want to help you !
they say they want to help me .
all right , quit knocking .
i' m my own judge .
have you seen her ?
try to understand , chris , i' m not mad .
it has to do with my conscience .
i really hoped you' d get here in time .
how did you ...
it' s so good !
but you can' t possibly ...
how did you find out where i was ?
what do you mean " find out " ?
don' t , chris , that tickles .
where are my shoes ?
no ... they' re not there .
who' s this ?
chris , this is me ...
you know ...
i have a feeling
as if i' ve forgotten something .
what' s the matter with me ? ..
do you love me ?
why do you have to ask , hari , as if you didn' t know .
i' ve got to go out .
i won' t be long , wait here .
can' t i come with you ?
no .
i' il be back soon .
no !
why ?
i don' t know ...
i can' t ...
you can' t what ?
i feel like i' ve got to be with you ... all the time , to see you ...
why are you being so childish ?
i' ve work to do , hari .
you' re right , i' m acting childish .
as for you , you' re as nervous as snout .
as who ?
as doctor snout .
how do you know ...
i' ve got to go .
if you want , you can come with me .
but you won' t be able to get into a suit with your dress on .
help me , i can' t do it by myself .
why do you keep staring at me ?
