another one .
a bee in the raln
based on the novel by carlos de ollvelra
screenplay and additional dialogue fernando lopes
director of photography manuel costa e sllva
original soundtrack manuel jorge veloso
executive producer fernando matos sllva
editor and director fernando lopes
to joo rodrigues and maria joo " ivaro ...
ivaro !
ivaro !
she proceeded , all in white , led by her father , amid the murmur of the organ and the whispered voices .
she was sure she was smiling .
but inside her a cry was forming which had always been repressed and now , after 20 years , she still had it within herself .
clara !
what is she up to now ?
ask jacinto to prepare the carriage .
i , ivaro rodrigues silvestre , tradesman and farmer from montouro ,
in the parish of so caetano , borough of corgos ,
do swear on my honour that i have continually stolen
from men on earth and god in heaven .
even when i was serving as the lady of montouro' s butler ,
and maize for the poor was in excess
i filled my own granary with it .
in my defence i also swear that all i did was prompted
by d maria dos prazeres pessoa d' alba sancho silvestre ...
my wife .
" my wife ,
and that i never stopped stealing , at the counter , at the fairs ,
from the workers ' wages
and the inheritance of my brother , leopoldino , to whom i am the trustee
selling his lands without his knowledge ,
and who , to my shame , is now returning from africa
and i cannot give him the correct accounts .
my remission begins with this confession to the world .
may the father , the son and the holy ghost
have mercy upon me and anyone else who can do so .
the first page of the next issue .
i' il pay whatever you ask .
bu why this public confession ?
i must settle my accounts with god and mankind .
above all with god .
what does your wife think about this ?
she must never find out !
but , dear silvestre , she' s bound to when the newspaper comes out .
i won' t care then .
as they say ,
' in for a penny in for a pound ' .
so , how much are you charging me ?
damn , here she comes !
it seems i' m disturbing you .
aren' t you going to introduce me ?
maria dos prazeres pessoa d' alba sancho silvestre .
just imagine , he walked all the way , from montouro in this weather .
i don' t know what brought him here .
whatever it was , he has been sick , having strange ideas and you must excuse him .
enough , maria !
let' s go !
didn' t dr. neto advise you to rest ?
where are your boots ?
i think i' m dreaming .
if it' s daytime , then light is not enough to light a stony path .
it it' s night , the stars shine with an unusual brightness .
on our way everything looks dead .
time is either tired of this long journey , or asleep , or it' s also dead .
i have forgotten the familiar landscape .
and can only see a long , undulating desert , the fleshy and twisted silhouette of the cacti , the sharp pebbles in our path .
it is raining .
something like that .
jacinto , what is it ?
indifferent , eh ?
superior to the hardship he gives me , to the life he forces me to lead .
his excellency nods and sleeps , indifferent to what i say and to the world .
for twenty years i have been listening to his snoring ,
tiptoeing , so as not to waken him .
i may be wrong but i think the horse may be lame ...
don' t worry .
keep going .
jacinto !
stop and see if the horse is lame !
well ?
he is , it' s what i said .
alright , alright .
go slowly , jacinto .
and even if they tell you to flay the horse , don' t do it .
removing the last leg from one of these chickens that the natives sold me for the price of a cow and amazed by the sun' s immense disc , diving at the end of the desert , suddenly , framed against the redness of the sunset ,
i saw a man on a mount .
he was unquestionably european , because he was wearing an overcoat .
the moment i saw him , the man swayed , fell down and started slowly crawling towards me .
in a desperate effort he straightened up , and staggered a few steps .
then he fell again and remained prostate , as though dead , against a tall tuft .
i shouted at one of my hunters to go and help him .
and when he came back , holding the man in his arms , whom do i see ?
jos silveira .
or rather , his poor skeleton with the bones sticking out of the skin , which was drier than parchment and more yellow than egg yolk .
his eyes were aghast , like two blood clots , and his hair , formerly grey , was now completely white .
water , he moaned " .
water for the love of christ " .
ivaro .
ivaro .
what were you doing in corgos ?
what paper was that you hid so quickly ?
my dear ivaro .
here i am after six years in the inland .
africa is indescribable .
one has to come and see it .
where i was the natives were not bad people .
after being tamed , which , even so , was difficult ,
they came with me in my quest , for treasures , near solomon' s mines .
in montouro we had a book on that which my sister in law bought .
the chief of the tribe gave me 30 natives , two elephants , luggage and two women for my personal use " .
don' t read this part to my sister in law .
don' t forget that a black woman when squeezed is juicier than an orange .
it is simply necessary to fill her with some of the spirit they have here .
i' d like to see a white woman who could match that .
why were you at the newspaper ?
get off my back !
i will .
when you are less drunk .
who' s drunk ?
who ?
you fucking aristocrat !
you only talk about coats of arms , but i' ve been feeding you for 20 years !
my father had a coachman who spoke like you .
and once he had no choice but to have him whipped .
if he were still alive , what wouldn' t he do to you ?
you' re drunker and more vulgar than any coachman .
maria !
open the door , maria .
for god' s sake , open the door .
i want to apologise .
it was the brandy talking , not me !
i know it was the brandy .
now leave me alone .
the coachmen are fed up !
god will spare you
from the burdens of this world
and the dangers abroad ...
and if we' re found , jacinto ?
don' t worry .
it' s still quite dark .
damn my old man and his wish of marrying me to a farmer .
look at the master .
he' s not man enough for his wife .
he did' t even dare to give her a son .
get off me !
come here !
jacinto !
the coachmen are fed up ...
everything' s gone .
the damask covered chairs , the carved wardrobes , the sideboard with very fine crystal , the turned beds , the paintings on the walls , the silverware ...
everything' s gone with our tears .
the jewellery , the rings .
everything' s gone .
the rifles , the greyhounds , the horses , the carriages ... the old dagger studded with diamonds .
everthing is gone with our tears .
the time is approaching when my most precious of treasures will be stolen from me .
oh teresa , teresa .
thus will they separate us .
maybe forever .
i' d rather die a thousand deaths than endure this suffering .
entire nights go by with endless nightmares .
sometimes i see teresa crying , amidst the ghostly visions that torture my suffering soul .
i hear her sobs and anguished cries , torn from her bosom ...
oh teresa , teresa .
thus will they separate us .
maybe forever .
oh teresa , teresa .
thus will they separate us .
maybe forever .
oh teresa , teresa .
thus will they separate us .
maybe forever .
dragging teresa to a convent further away the hideous spectre of balthazar coutinho' s cynicism , sneering at our love and preventing our happiness .
ah , but the villain will pay with his life for his wicked proceedings .
here come the tormentors of the innocent .
i can hear them .
i must hide .
may god protect me .
she was my only daughter , balthazar !
exactly .
if you had another , the loss would be less painful and her disobedience less dishonest .
now dear uncle ,
i see no other way than to put balm on the sore .
we' il get nowhere with plasters .
you' re right .
uncle , she' s coming .
teresa !
i am here .
it is not too late .
for what ?
to be a good daughter .
my conscience bears no guilt ...
it' s not over yet ?
don' t you want to go home , and forget this villain , who is the cause of our misfortunes ?
no , father .
my fate is the convent .
i shall never forget him .
i shall be a disobedient daughter , but never a liar .
in that case , let' s go .
not even here ?
are you talking to me , teresa ?
i am indeed !
not even here am i free from your hateful presence ?
i am one of the servants that my cousin takes with her .
some days ago , there were two worthy of accompanying her .
but a murderer out there killed them .
i offer my services for lack of theirs .
i will do without your niceties .
but i will not do without serving you .
that' s how it must be ...
the final accounts have not yet been made , my dear cousin .
simon .
it is incredible that this scoundrel should have come !
me , a scoundrel ?
why ?
scoundrel and murderer !
out of my sight !
i do not neglect your lordship .
dear lady , suffer with resignation as i do .
bear your misfortunes accepting the violence thereof .
and perhaps half way to your calvary , divine mercy will double your strength .
what is that villain saying ? !
simon !
calm down , uncle !
he dares to comfort your daughter , vile though this act is .
it' s too much .
i shall crush you right here , you villain .
the villain is he who threatens me without stepping one pace !
haven' t i made that clear ?
punishing you before the servants !
you are mere scum !
if that is so , i hope never to meet your lordship again .
such lack of dignity !
i shall surely have him beaten by the first rogue on the corner ...
ah , riff raff !
balthazar !
now the time has come .
the most precious of treasures will be stolen from me .
oh teresa , teresa .
thus will they separate us .
who knows ?
maybe forever .
oh , i' d rather die a thousand deaths than endure this suffering .
entire nights go by in endless nightmares .
sometimes i see teresa tortured , seized by the same demons that haunt me .
i hear her sobs and anguished cries , torn from her bosom , asking heaven for deliverance from her torturers .
next to me , mariana' s candid face begging , with joined hands .
further on , i see tadeu de albuquerque dragging teresa to a convent further away .
next to them , the hideous cynicism of balthazar , scorning at our love and preventing our happiness .
oh , clara ...
she slinks around , full of desire .
oh ana , oh ana , try to get me a man .
and she eats you with her eyes .
the hail mary' s .
here come the tormentors of the innocent .
i can hear them .
i must hide and may god protect me .
a strike is being prepared , master antnio .
is it true that you love clara ?
is it true that you love clara ?
yes or no ?
you know it' s true , master .
what would you say if i offered her hand to you ?
what would you say ? !
i would say yes three times .
well , she' s yours .
i have some accounts to settle .
she' s yours if you help me settle them .
i like the pay .
you' ve found your man .
we' il run away .
it' s a big world and one can live anywhere .
what about my father ?
i' m afraid .
never mind that !
jacinto , i' m afraid .
who is that with her ?
who is that with her ?
i think it' s jacinto , master .
silvestre' s coachman ?
i think so .
you think so , or you are sure ?
it is him , master .
we must catch him .
go and get your club .
what are we going to do to him ?
are you giving up already ?
what will we do to jacinto ?
do you want the girl , or not ?
that' s settled .
let' s hide him and wait until dusk .
it' s you groaning , master antnio ?
like hell it is !
then it' s him !
i never heard donkeys groan like that !
hit him again , marcelo !
finish him off !
catch the animal !
get him , he' s taking our man !
catch the animal !
get him , he' s taking our man !
grab him or we' re lost !
i' il go after him , but i' m not coming back .
well then say goodbye to the girl !
marcelo , wait for me !
marcelo !
marcelo !!!
marcelo !
i' m back , master antnio .
so you are !
i knew you weren' t a man to leave business unfinished .
can i have clara ?
hit him again and we' il see .
get the club .
it' s time to finish him off .
did you get him or not ?
jacinto .
jacinto !
jacinto !
now you must give me clara , master antnio .
who knows ?
you may have won her .
we must hurry , master , the sun is rising .
let it rise .
and as for the girl ...
you said you' d give her to me !
but i' ve been thinking .
do you know why we killed him ?
because you said so .
good answer .
clara !
clara !
clara !
so , will you give her to me ?
i think you have lost her .
clara !
marcelo !!
marcelo !
hail mary , full of grace , the lord be with you .
blessed be you among women .
blessed is the fruit of your womb , jesus .
hail mary , mother of god , beseech us poor sinners .
now and at the hour of our death , amen .
hail mary , full of grace , the lord be with you .
blessed be you among women .
blessed is the fruit of your womb , jesus .
hail mary , mother of god , beseech us poor sinners .
now and at the hour of our death , amen .
you must listen to me , maria ,
i may be killed and i don' t want this on my conscience .
don' t abandon me , don' t leave me .
the coachman was boasting about the way you looked at him .
they are laughing about us and our life .
he was killed .
i went to the old man and told him his daughter and jacinto wanted to elope together and were flirting in the cow shed .
the old man went crazy .
i should have kept my mouth shut .
i should have kept my mouth shut .
don' t worry , they won' t kill you !
dreams about dreams .
always one mistake on top of another .
to forget you ... and our life .
shut up , for god' s sake .
what i never imagined was that he realised it .
even now that he' s dead , i hate that damned coachman .
if it' s of any good to you , i hate him too ,
for having understood what was so much my own , so private that i didn' t even admit it to myself .
now are you still surprised that i dream , ivaro ?
did madame d' argres show up after all ?
madame d' argres did show up and spoiled everything .
who invited madame d' argres ?
no one .
the baron told her .
and she came to the woods , as if taking a stroll .
ccile , the knight de tellier and their friends were not too pleased .
but ccile' s father invited her to stay for the picnic .
that marquis !
i always said he was an idiot .
the ruined marquis married madame d' argres .
of course , the knight could not become his own mistress ' son in law .
there' s the desertion then .
do you understand , ccile ?
the desertion .
love , as you have perhaps always wanted it .
the purity from cradle to death .
ccile , ccile ...
tresses unloosed over a trembling body .
someone' s hands , as gentle as the rain in the fields .
but what does all that matter ?
gracious me , didn' t the knight do something ?
yesterday , she and i cried in the last chapter .
the tears , the ever present radiance of the memory of armand .
the happiness of renunciation .
marriages of convenience .
madame d' argres and the marquis .
and armand ...
armand lost forever .
i learnt the last words by heart .
ccile' s was too great a passion to be burned and consumed in common love .
armand tellier and she finally realised that .
and now , in the gentle renunciation ...
where is the brandy in this house ?
in my defence i also swear that all i did was prompted
by maria dos prazeres pessoa d' alba sancho silvestre ,
my wife ,
and i never stopped stealing , at the counter , at the fairs ,
from the workers ' wages
and the inheritance of my brother , leopoldino , to whom i am the trustee
selling his lands without his knowledge
and who , to my shame , is now returning from africa .
we would also like to thank the facilities granted by
count bobone in all the outdoor shootings .
crlstbet , lda .
