dear mr. inman ,
i began by counting the days , then the months .
i don' t count on anything anymore except the hope that you will return , and the silent fear that in the years since we saw each other , this war , this awful war , will have changed us both beyond all reckoning .
this poor boy' s from alabama ,
he' s a long way from home , thank you ,
why don' t them yanks just attack ?
got any shirts , son ?
it' s mo oakley' s boy ,
can' t be old enough to fight , can he ?
good morning , morning , son ,
got some boots and jackets , you want one ?
here , you want that ?
thanks ,
i hope these boots can hold up for 400 miles ,
' cause they' re taking me back to cold mountain ,
i think now on the fleeting moments between us and wish i could repair them .
my awkward nature , the things left unsaid .
all right , that' s it ,
enough powder here to blow a hole in the sky ,
yeah , a real yankee good mornin ' ,
that old book of yours is in shreds ,
same as us , seen too much war ,
hey , oakley , don' t worry , son , them yankee boys keep store hours ,
they ain' t open yet ,
close it up ,
hey , where' d you come from ?
hey , that' s fresh breakfast ,
he' s mine , butcher , hey !
hey !
get away !
hey , i saw him first , come on !
i saw it first !
that' s my rabbit !
that' s my rabbit !
get your paws off my rabbit !
get your paws off my rabbit !
when i came with my father to the town of cold mountain ,
i was so shy of how i looked , so out of place .
but did you know how happy i was to escape from charleston , from a world of slaves and corsets and cotton ? what do you fools think you' il be fightin ' for ?
the south ?
i call this nail northern aggression ,
damn right , i call this nail the yankee skulls ,
last time i checked , the south was a direction ,
never figured you for a lincoln lover , jt ,
i tell you , as soon as i finish this chapel ,
i' m gonna go off and kill me some yankees ,
piss and vinegar ,
fightin ' for a rich man' s slave , that' s what , whoa , here comes the minister ,
ben , thank you , will you assist my daughter ?
lord have mercy , look at that bonnet ,
look what' s in it ,
oakley , hand me the hammer , boy ,
that' s a true southern belle ,
mr , swanger !
good morning to you , morning , reverend ,
esco , you remember my daughter , ada ,
miss monroe , good morning ,
morning , morning ,
excellent progress , morning ,
mrs , swanger , mrs , castlereagh , morning , reverend ,
now , if y' all will excuse me ,
in charleston , my congregation would still be disputing the size of the windows ,
it' s a chapel ,
miss monroe , i was just thinkin ' about you ,
cold mountain must feel like the end of the world ,
not at all ,
it' s very beautiful , well , you put us all to shame ,
men up here had a bearing on what they thought a woman was ,
and then you showed up , oh ...
no , i doubt that , oh , believe me ,
if you was to say a word to one of these fools , i could get my top field cleared ,
any one ?
no , um ...
him in particular ,
up in the rafters , won' t normally say boo to a goose ,
he' s been pressin ' me since the day you arrived here ,
your top field cleared ?
that' s right ,
good morning , i' m ada monroe ,
inman ,
inman , wp inman , wp inman ,
repeatin ' a thing doesn' t improve it ,
people call me inman ,
how ' bout that ?
inman speaks ,
if you were to take a glass of cider , your friends might stop staring ,
inman ,
you' re just jealous , i' m gonna take her for a walk at bishop' s creek ,
billy , is this frame flush ?
thank you ,
yeah , yeah , yeah , thank you , yeah , right ,
richie , i seen your house , there ain' t a square angle anywhere near it ,
and what do you do ?
i work wood ,
hunt ,
mostly work wood ,
clear fields ?
i can clear a field , was there something in particular you wished to say to me ?
not that comes to me ,
i' il say thank you ... for the cider ,
move back !
go back !
move back !
go back !
go back !
they' re trapped in the wrong damn crater , whole plan backfired on ' em ,
send them yanks straight to hell ,
hold it , hold it , let' s go , turn it around ,
damn fools dug their own grave , we' ve got ' em now , boys ,
it' s a turkey shoot , what ?
it' s a turkey shoot , they' ve run themselves into a hole ,
hell' s busted ,
oakley !
oakley !
oakley !
inman !
inman !
oakley !
oakley !
inman !
come on ,
inman ,
i' ve got you ,
i got a few ,
you saw ?
i saw ,
am i gonna die ?
your folks can be real proud of you ,
son , this fellow says he' il play whatever you want , what about bonaparte' s retreat ?
that' s one i play ,
no , play me somethin ' sweet ,
like a girl' s waiting for me ,
you heard him , i only know a couple of tunes ,
like when you' re at bishop' s creek ... and you' re thirsty ... and the water' s so cool ,
i don' t know what music that is ,
i' m reachin ' cold mountain before you ,
good morning , sally ,
well , that' s a fine sounding thing , oh ...
my piano ,
oh , i' ve been missing it ,
thank you , by the way , inman' s in my top field clearing his debt ,
oh , dear ,
and then he had nothing to say ,
he was happy ,
really ?
are men so different in charleston ?
men ?
i don' t know ,
if you' re sayin ' you might like him , why not go over and say good mornin ' ?
i should be gettin ' along , walk on , quickly ,
come on , walk on , slowly , walk on ,
my dear daughter , ada , who' s given up so much for so long to help me in my ministry , and upon whom i rely ,
friends , we are both very happy to have this opportunity tonight ... to thank you from our hearts ... for your kind welcome and , most of all , such a fine chapel ,
so ... ... thank you , and god bless you ,
our house is always open to any of you at any time , welcome ,
esco ?
that gentleman he help build the chapel ?
him ?
no , that' s teague ,
at one time the teague family owned the whole of cold mountain ,
my farm , your farm , it all belonged to his grandpappy ,
teague wanted this place bad , and you got it ,
and he' s here sniffin ' out an advantage ,
there' s no advantage here , except to celebrate a job well done ,
and that is a good thing in these troubled times ,
miss monroe , thank you ,
were you never planning to come inside ?
i' m wetter than a fish ,
there' s a good fire going , i' m all right ,
you' re always carrying a tray ,
i was going to take some root beer over to the negroes ,
somebody said you were enlisting ,
are you ?
if there is a war , we' il all fight ,
did you get a picture made ?
say again ?
a tintype , with your musket and your courage on display ,
you' re laughin ' at me ,
i don' t know you ,
this doesn' t come out right ,
if it were enough just to stand , without the words ...
it is ,
it is ,
you ... look ,
look , look at the sky now , what color is it ?
or the way ... a hawk flies ?
or you wake up ... and your ribs are bruised thinking so hard on somebody , what do you call that ?
i' il do that ,
i can' t get much wetter , what if you are killed , and i' il never see you again ?
you said after a few years i would barely remember your name .
oh , inman .
it is more than three years , and i remember your name .
soldiers , don' t get up ,
you are mentioned tonight in my report ,
you men from cold mountain have once again been heroes for the cause ,
there are yankees in that stand of trees between us , stuck there from the retreat ,
if they stay there , tomorrow mornin ' they can shoot us down for sport .
go around ,
it' s a reb !
how many of them are there ?
i think there' s five ,
under the trees , we got ' em , let' s go , let' s go ,
butcher' s down ,
leave him , leave him , he' s gone , let' s go ,
go , go !
go !
run !
go !
go !
go !
hold your fire ! what' s over by them trees ?
it' s us !
it' s us !
i said hold your fire !
hold your fire ,
leave him , leave him ,
agh !
inman' il get it .
supposed to bring good luck , a bird caught in a room ,
i' m so sorry to have kept you waiting , she' il just be a few seconds ,
mr , inman , reverend ,
what can i do for you ?
i have some sheet music ,
it belonged to my father , no use to me ,
thank you ,
you must come in , i should probably get along ,
mr , inman is more comfortable outdoors ,
perhaps we might ... perhaps we might take a walk ,
a splendid idea ,
let me just get your hat ,
i dragged my poor daughter 400 miles from charleston to cold mountain because my doctors , they' ve been sayin ' my chest is weak ,
so the air' s supposed to do me good ,
but it' s the view i think heals ,
it' s what people say we' re fightin ' for , to keep it that way ,
i have no plans to preach war in my church , mr , inman ,
i imagine god is weary of being called down on both sides of an argument ,
i imagine god is ,
thank you ,
now , your father played the piano , did he ?
that' s right , he was a teacher ,
and is your father living , mr , inman ?
he is not , and your mother ?
no , sir , she died when i was born ,
secession , north carolina left the union , for i don' t care to stay here long we got our war ! whoo hoo !
we got our war ! we got it ! we got it !
it' s about time , whoo !
all right !
inman !
inman !
ready to fight , son , ready to fight , whoo ! we got our war , man , well , you have your war ,
ada ,
ada ,
it' s a great day for north carolina ,
those who follow lincoln or preach abolition ... you best keep one eye open when you' re sleepin ' ,
ol ' boogeyman might get you ,
are you the law all of a sudden , mr , teague ?
that' s right , son ,
home guard for haywood county , and i' m the law from today ,
y' all go fight now , we' il watch over your sweethearts ,
hey , teague , why ain' t you fightin ' ?
' cause he' s too old ,
yeah !
you might be safer back in charleston ,
but then who' il be waiting for you ?
three cheers for north carolina !
all right , three cheers for the south !
hip hip hurrah !
hip hip hurrah !
hip hip hurrah !
inman , it belongs to inman ,
i got it , he' s here ,
they found that book you been worryin ' about , soldier ,
wait ,
i found you this book to take with you , william bartram ,
they tell me it' s good ,
i think he writes about these parts , the author , so ...
thank you ,
and this ,
i' m not smiling in it ,
i don' t know how to do that , hold a smile ,
ada , what ?
whoa !
he' il be back in a month ,
kiss her for me ,
come on , let' s go ,
i' il be waiting for you ,
lookin ' good , butcher ,
bring home some yankee scalps , swimmer ,
yee haw !
look out the window , ladies .
see what these poor fools are dyin ' for .
how many would still lose a leg for the rich man' s slave ?
most of these soldiers' il be dead by morning , or if they' re stubborn , by nightfall ,
i' ve other men outside in the courtyard waitin ' for beds , so any kind word will be a blessin ' ,
it' s the heat , i' m sorry , they rot ,
pigeon river ...
how are you , son ?
cold ...
mountain ...
i i' m sorry ,
you want water ?
cold ...
mountain ,
cold mountain ?
cold mountain ,
do you worry when there' s no word from him ?
from mr , inman ?
yes ,
but then i' ve tried countin ' the number of words which have passed between mr , inman and me not very many ,
but i think about him , daddy , all the time ,
i lost your mother after 22 months of marriage ,
it was enough to fill a life ,
that was the last of the ham ,
it was delicious , i have to learn how to cook ,
i was thinking of saying something in chapel ,
perhaps some of the womenfolk will volunteer ,
i can' t have people coming here and cooking for me ,
i so ...
i so regret ...
i should have raised you less like a companion and more like a young woman ,
i' m sorry , ada , and for dragging you here ,
i' m not sorry ,
i would have followed you anywhere ,
to mongolia , mongolia ,
but with no one left to work this place , nothing to buy , nothing left to buy it with ...
i just don' t know how we' re gonna get through another winter , will you play me somethin ' ?
somethin ' peaceful while i look over my sermon ,
it' s too damp out here , you should come inside ,
no ,
i like it ,
daddy , bring the tablecloth in ,
come inside before you drown ,
you have a letter ,
north carolina ,
it' s come a long way ,
it' s not too recent ,
it' s written this past winter ,
i' m afraid i can' t read who it' s from ,
dear mr , inman ...
since you' ve left , time has been measured out in bitter chapters .
last fall , my poor father died .
our farm at black cove is abandoned .
every house in these mountains touched by tragedy .
each day the dread ... of learning who has fallen ... who will not return from this terrible war .
and no word from you .
are you alive ?
i pray to god you are .
this war is lost on the battlefield and is being lost twice over by those who stayed behind .
he ain' t comin ' back , you know that ,
you must know that in your heart ,
look at me ,
look at me ,
i' m not nothin ' ,
i' m still waiting , as i promised i would .
but i find myself alone and at the end of my wits ... too embarrassed to keep taking from those who can least afford to give .
ada !
it' s sally !
ada !
look at the state of this place ,
well , set it on the porch ,
she let them slaves go free , and now ...
poor soul , she' s got nobody and nothin ' , and waitin ' on a ghost ,
shoo !
go away ,
devil !
my last thread of courage now is to put my faith in you ... and to believe i will see you again .
so now i say to you , plain as i can ... if you are fighting , stop fighting .
if you are marching , stop marching .
come back to me ,
come back to me is my request ,
come back to me .
come back to me is my request .
wounded men , don' t stray from the hospital grounds ,
hey !
if they send us back to fight ...
hey , get your peanuts now , from the blind man ,
hey , your hot goobers here , it' s a sad day ,
gettin ' better , soldier ?
seems that way ,
i wouldn' t hurry ,
the war' s almost done , don' t need your help to lose it ,
you got ten minutes now , boys , ten minutes to get your haircuts and shaves ,
i' ve been meanin ' to ask you , where' d you take your wound ?
oh , before i was born ,
never set eyes on a thing in this world ,
not a tree , a gun or a woman , put my hand on all three , though , what would you give for that ?
hm ?
to have your eyeballs for ten minutes , ten minutes ?
i wouldn' t give an indian head cent ,
might turn me hateful , that' s sure what seein' s done to me ,
no , that' s not the way i meant it ,
you said ten minutes ,
it' s havin ' a thing and then the loss of it i' m talking about ,
then we don' t agree , there' s not much i wouldn' t give for ten minutes of someplace ,
yeah , someplace ... or someone ,
you watch yourself , now ,
they' re shootin ' men who take themselves a walk ,
by order of zebulon vance , governor of this great state of north carolina , any soldier turned deserter is guilty of treason , and should be hunted down like a dog ,
any man who takes in a deserter is likewise guilty of treason ,
the home guard is powered to enter any place it sees fit without notice or constraint ,
captain teague needs more volunteers ,
any man whose age or infirmity prevents him from fightin ' shall join us to protect this county from yankee raiders and traitors to the cause ,
is there a letter for me ?
nothin ' , we' ve been gettin ' no post through at all , the sooner we lose this war the better ,
they say not one boy in ten is comin ' home to these mountains ,
teague and his rabble throwin ' their weight around , they' re worse than the yankees ,
might i speak with you , please ?
this was the reverend monroe' s ,
i don' t know who would want a watch , who can bear to look at the time ?
i' ve got a little salt pork you can have ,
keep your daddy' s watch ,
thank you ,
i was talkin ' to some of the other womenfolk about maybe lookin ' in on you at black cove , it' s hard right now , but ...
oh , no , i manage very well , whatever the talk is ,
i' m very grateful for the pork , which i intend to pay for , of course ,
is everything all right ?
mm hmm ,
ada ,
ada , why , ada , you are skinny as a whippet , girl ,
you are comin ' indoors with me , no , i can' t ,
i don' t ...
i can' t keep countin ' on your kindness ,
now , come on , i' m makin ' a stew , we' d be proud to have you , esco' s gonna be wantin ' his dinner ,
i just wanna stop , i tell you , yeah ,
sit on the porch with sal , watch my boys in the fields , holler good job every hour or so ,
that' il be a good day , when our boys get home , what about your people in charleston ?
there are no people ,
and there' s no money ,
my father had some bonds and investments ,
they' re worthless now , of course , the war ...
they' re not worth anything , i don' t have anywhere else to go ,
i don' t wanna go ,
you' re waiting on a feller , oh !
look down our well ...
esco ...
she should ,
if you look down our well with a mirror , you' il see the future , it' s what they say ,
you do it , she does it , what kind of mirror ?
we' il hold on to you , esco , you hold on , i got her ,
we got you , mm ,
see anything ?
i don' t know , i tried many a time ,
lookin ' for a sign my boys were comin ' home ,
i never saw a dickey bird ,
oh !
are you all right ?
ada ? what ? what happened ?
what' d you see ? what' d you see ?
yesterday , i saw you walkin ' back to me ... or thought i did .
i found myself crouching over sally swanger' s well ...
... like a madwoman staring into its secrets .
was it you i saw walking home to me , or was it your ghost ?
after so long , i know i must learn to survive on my own and accept you will not return .
and yet i cannot .
i cannot .
them cows wants milkin ' ,
if that letter ain' t urgent , them cows is is what i' m sayin ' ,
i don' t know you ,
old lady swanger says you need help ,
here i am ,
i ...
i need help but ...
i need ...
i do need help , but i need a laborer ,
there' s ... there' s plowing and rough work , i think there' s been a misunderstanding , what' s that rake for ?
the rake ? well , it ain' t for gardenin ' , that' s for sure ,
number one , you got a horse ?
i can plow all day , i' m a worker ,
number two , ain' t no man better' n me ,
' cause there ain' t no man around who ain' t old or full of mischief ,
i know your plight , my plight ?
am i hard to hear ?
' cause you keep repeatin ' everything ,
i ain' t lookin ' for money , i never cared for it and now it ain' t worth nothin ' ,
i expect to board and eat , at the same table ,
i ain' t a servant , if you get my meanin ' , you' re not a servant ,
people' s gonna have to empty their own night jars is my point ,
and i don' t expect to work whilst you sit around and watch , neither ,
right ,
right , is that a yes or a no ?
there' s a rooster , he' s the devil , i' m sure of it ,
i go near him and he is at me with his spurs ,
he' s lucifer himself ,
i despise a floggin ' rooster ,
oh , no , i wouldn' t ...
my name' s ruby thewes , i know your name ,
let' s put him in a pot ,
urgh !
you' re my angel , my butterfly ,
come fly away ,
my love ...
god forgive me for doin ' this ,
i' m so sorry ,
i' m sendin ' you to a better place ,
you go fly away ,
hey !
don' t do that , don' t pull that trigger , i' m a man of god ,
i killed several of them , i mean i' m god' s minister , what part of god' s business is throwin ' a woman down a gorge ?
a slave woman ,
can you see that in this light ?
black as a bucket of tar ,
is she dead ?
no , i drugged her ,
like you would a butterfly ,
and i care for her , that' s the heartbreak of it ,
she' s got my bastard in her belly ,
come on , back up ,
i' m beggin ' you , git ,
it' s better you blow out my brains than return me to this place ,
you' re gonna put her back where she sleeps ,
i do that , the members will lynch me for sirin ' a bastard while servin ' as their preacher , we' re a strict congregation , we' ve churched men for pickin ' up a fiddle on the sabbath ,
so you reckon to kill her ? what , because she' s a slave ?
i ... um ...
there' s a back door , have pity ,
thank you ,
i was gonna do a grievous wrong ,
i think i should go back up to my wife ,
she wakes at the slightest noise ,
agh !
ohh ... where' s some paper and a pencil ?
hey , ada !
you up ?
yes , wha ... ?
it' s still dark ,
tell that to the cows , it' s late ,
you all set ?
oh , i i just have to eat somethin ' , well , then , you got to get up earlier , what' s that ?
a novel ,
catastrophe .
i can spell it , too , learned it the same place you did , in the schoolhouse ,
one of the first words they taught me ,
ruby thewes , you are a c a t a s t r o p h e ,
three years i was in school , before my daddy ...
sayin ' god rest his soul is like wishin ' him what he had in life ,
he lived to rest , he was born tired ,
he decided ... better use for me than havin ' me sat all day in front of a chalkboard ,
number one , lay out a winter garden for cool season crops ,
turnips right there , onions , cabbage ,
collards ,
number two , patch the shingles on the barn roof ,
have we got a maul and frow ?
maul ?
maul , m a u l ,
number three , clear and turn this field ,
no harm done lettin ' it go , now we' il do well ,
number 15 ... 16 ,
number 16 ...
number 16 ...
put up some gourds for a martin colony , keep away these crows ,
one thing in abundance on this farm , and that' s crows , shut the gate ,
i' d pay a dollar for an egg ,
i' ve got no quarrel with you ,
hey !
am i near the cape fear river ?
home guard !
get back there !
runaways !
come on , boys !
let' s get ' em !
they' re spreadin ' out in the field !
come back here !
they' re in the field ,
they' re in the field !
i can get you outta here ,
i daresay that' s home guard followin ' you ,
they' re out on the road , huntin ' down deserters ,
and i don' t recommend that way ,
you' il meet half the town comin ' after me with a noose , thanks to you ,
i should have shot you when i had the chance ,
i know where there' s a ferry crossin ' , or you can stubborn yourself to death ,
if this is a trap ...
please yourself , i' m just bein ' a christian ,
you got any money ? $5 ,
for $5 i wouldn' t give a parched man a dipper of this river water ,
the sign says ferry $5 ,
nobody crosses these waters unless they' re runnin ' from someplace ,
you wanna wait for your friends ?
i can give you $30 confederate , well , all right , let' s go , whatever that' s worth ,
they cut off my hair ,
that was hard ,
i was vain about my hair ,
i had curls ,
but i deserved it ,
i' m the reverend veasey , have i seen you in church ?
no , not likely to , neither ,
i' d say these days , the devil rules the roost ,
30 more dollars , we can go over to that cabin and i can pull this dress over my head ,
have we got $30 ?
get down !
i got one ,
is there any other way to cross ?
barge or boat , the water' s full of gators , what' s this wood ?
i don' t know , in ,
i don' t know , pine ,
locust ?
pine , where' s north ?
north ?
uh ...
name me three herbs that grow wild on this farm ,
i can' t , i can' t , all right ?
i can talk about farming in latin ,
i can ...
i can read french ,
i know how to lace up a corset , god knows ,
i can name the principal rivers in europe ,
just don' t ask me to name one stream in this county !
i can ...
i can embroider but i can' t darn !
i can arrange cut flowers but i can' t grow them !
if a thing has a function , if i might do something with it , then it wasn' t considered suitable !
why ?
ruby , you can ask why about pretty much everything to do with me ,
this fence is about the first thing that i' ve ever done that might produce an actual result ,
so you never wrapped your legs around this inman ?
come on ,
fine piano ,
if we' re careful , now we' il get through winter ,
i got old man roy to give me ten of them sheep , on account of i said they' s so small , put together they weren' t no bigger than six proper sheep ,
my father always wanted sheep on this farm ,
i cut off my hair once for money ,
my daddy got $ 2 for it , made a wig for some rich feller in raleigh ,
i' m just sayin ' i' m real sorry you had to lose your piano ,
ruby , it was my idea ,
stobrod liked to call himself a musician ,
my daddy , he could play six tunes on a fiddle ,
got hisself shot dead at petersburg ,
i was like his goat ,
or some critter tethered to a post ,
he left me once , up in them mountains ,
i was eight , he was gone over two and a half weeks ,
he left you ?
uh huh , i was all right ,
my daddy , he' d walk 40 miles for liquor and not 40 inches for kindness ,
i' m so plugged up ,
used to be as regular as morning prayers ,
matter of fact , i could set my watch by my bowels ,
open my gut now , they' d find turds stacked up like little black twigs ,
home guard !
hey , shh ,
look at this , keep your voice down ,
look at this !
it' s a good saw !
and it' s not yours ,
you' re a christian , don' t you know your commandments ?
you' il find the good lord very flexible on the subject of property , we could do a lot with this saw ,
cut down a tree , play music with it ,
you' re gonna thank me for this saw ,
i' il say thank you when i' ve lost you and i' ve found some food ,
you' il see , you' il thank me ,
shh ,
good day to you ,
my old bull ... wandered off ... and died in this here creek ,
poisonin ' up our water is how i found him ,
thank you , you are a true christian ,
that' s a rank odor from that animal , been dead a good while , i reckon ,
this is a tricky one ,
you fellers help me out , my woman' il cook you up a good dinner ,
i' m gettin ' an idea ,
my saw' s the remedy ,
i believe you need two people , one on either end ,
yeah ,
give me that saw ,
let' s do this in chapters ,
that' s right , yeah ,
start at the neck ,
aw ... !
oh , well ...
that is unpleasant ,
there' s my place ,
hope you can stomach a yard chock full of female ,
oh , god , oh , my god ,
hallelujah ,
hallelujah !
oh , hallelujah !
the israelites ! what happened ?
he' s got a shit comin ' , it' s overdue ,
the tribes of israel are about to flee from the banks of egypt !
good god ,
these boys are stoppin ' for supper !
brought my woman home , she showed up with her three sisters , so called , and their brats ,
that' s mae , dolly , shyla , and the pretty one in blue is my wife , lila ,
those are fine examples of the female ,
my home brew sneaks up on you , it curdles your durdles ,
oh , oh , look , he' s gone now ,
look , he' s gone now ,
his eyes , they' ve gone ,
his eyes are gone , what ?
gone , gone , gone , gone !
i' m leavin ' soon as i' m full , y' all havin ' too much fun for me ,
really ?
goodbye , well , yeah , i got a bunch of traps need visitin ' , but i' il be back before ... before dark tomorrow ,
y' all still be here ?
that' s my fervent prayer ,
i' il say my goodbyes , i gotta go ,
i got miles and miles and miles and miles ahead of me before i reach the blue ridge ,
blue ridge ? what' s the hurry ?
maybe i willjust lie down a moment , yeah ,
this house is on a bit of a tilt , yeah , it is a bit crooked ,
lie down , what about you , reverend ?
i' m headin ' for that smokehouse ,
and i' m ready to be washed clean of my dirt ,
yeah , mae , you go tend to him , mm hm ,
all right ,
y' all get to bed ,
everybody else got their job ,
come on , get to bed , now ?
everybody to bed , lila , you stay with them kids ,
get on up those stairs ,
i' il be seein ' you .
look ...
he' s mine , you go rub yourself off on the preacher ,
i' m gonna make him hug me till i grunt ,
he' s purty , ain' t he ?
git ,
she ain' t even supposed to get a man ,
hey ,
i know , i know ,
i ...
how about that ? what does that favor ?
i ... ... gotta go , get on ,
and ride me all the way to china ,
you shy ?
do you need a hand ?
no , uh ...
let' s have a look and see what we can muster ,
oh , no , look what you made me do ,
slut !
home guard !
cover yourself up !
i told you , you don' t touch the money !
i had a special prayer you' d come visit ,
get up , evenin ' , hank ,
evenin ' , hank ,
you took your time , i said get up !
get in line , you fools fall for it every time ,
god will judge you , you judas ,
thanks , god will judge you !
move out !
our lives are on your rotten soul ,
mister ?
your rotten soul !
shut your mouth !
pleasure doin ' business with you , boys , judas !
save your breath ,
you got a long walk back to the fightin ' ,
ada monroe and ruby thewes , look at you both ,
look at us both what ?
like a couple of scarecrows after a thunderstorm , we need a scarecrow , birds done ate up half our winter garden ,
for all your kindness , coffee ... and a pie ,
yeah , and that' s real coffee , it ain' t chicory and dirt , found a sack hid in the larder ,
mmm ,
thank you both ,
ruby , i look forward to this , we all do ,
esco and me ,
she made it , i made it ,
good god in heaven ,
i' m still livin ' , well , i know esco' s gonna be real sorry he missed you ,
yep ,
strike you as odd ? what ?
stood at her front door , i know ,
number one , i knowed that woman all my life , i never stood outside her house ,
she' d let a wolf in if it knocked at the door ,
perhaps ...
i don' t know , perhaps she was busy ,
number two , old man swanger' s inside that house , i could smell his pipe burnin ' ,
number three , look at them fields , what about them ? we come by here a week ago and they was waist high in hay ,
you tellin ' me that' s work for one old man and his dog ?
yankees !
yankees !
cavalry !
federal raiders !
just over that hill ,
get those sacks of shit up that hill , come on !
get those horses under cover , if they see us , we' re dead ,
make a move , make a noise ...
