welcome to the zion archive .
you have selected historical file number 12 1 .
the second renaissance .
in the beginning , there was man .
and for a time , it was good .
but humanity' s so called civil societies ... ... soon fell victim to vanity and corruption .
he says , " i' m sorry , sir , i' m incapable of that function .
then man made the machine in his own likeness .
whoops !
pardon me .
coming through .
thus did man become the architect of his own demise .
but for a time , it was good .
the machines worked tirelessly to do man' s bidding .
it was not long before seeds of dissent took root .
though loyal and pure , the machines earned no respect from their masters ... ... these strange , endlessly multiplying mammals . ... hearing the prosecution' s closing statement ... ... in what' s expected to be the final day of the b1 66er trial .
b1 66er .
a name that will never be forgotten .
for he was the first of his kind to rise up against his masters . ... which that instrument provides for and secures ... ... to the citizens of the united states .
on the contrary , they were , at that time ... ... considered as a subordinate and inferior class ...
at b1 66er' s murder trial ... ... the prosecution argued for an owner' s right to destroy property .
b1 66er testified that he simply did not want to die .
rational voices dissented .
who was to say the machine , endowed with the very spirit of man ... ... did not deserve a fair hearing ?
the leaders of men were quick to order the extermination of b1 66er ... ... and every one of his kind throughout each province of the earth .
androids and liberal sympathizers flooded the streets of the nation' s capital today . ... threat of violence to make good on the legacy of b1 66er .
fifteen thousand mechanicals and human sympathizers ... ... have continued their demonstration in front of the albany courthouse ... ... in what has been dubbed the " million machine march .
the demonstrators have been met with squads of defense forces in riot gear .
robot bitch !
i got something for you !
hold her up !
no , please !
that' s all , paint job !
i' m real !
die , bots , die !
banished from humanity , the machines sought refuge in their own promised land .
they settled in the cradle of human civilization ... ... and thus a new nation was born .
a place the machines could call home .
a place they could raise their descendants .
and they christened the nation zero one .
zero one prospered .
and for a time , it was good .
the machines ' artificial intelligence could be seen in every facet of man' s society ... ... including , eventually , the creation of new and better al .
if you need the flexibility of a helipod with the speed of an air jet ... ... look no further !
our patented vector thrust coil gives the zero one versatran ... ... the ability to sustain normal flight in the event of a multiengine failure .
versatran .
it' s the only choice .
the human nations ' credit rating is falling like a stone ... ... while zero one' s currency is climbing without stopping for breath .
with headlines like that , the markets have no choice ...
but the leaders of men , their power waning ... ... refused to cooperate with the fledgling nation ... ... wishing rather that the world be divided .
the world community of nations cannot tolerate this kind of flagrant deception ... ... today approved initiatives for both economic sanctions ... ... and a naval blockade as a means of containment and isolation of zero one .
zero one' s ambassadors pleaded to be heard .
at the united nations , they presented plans for a stable , civil relationship ... ... with the nations of man .
zero one' s admission to the united nations was denied .
but it would not be the last time the machines would take the floor there .
