she was the first english woman i had ever met .
and it seemed to me she knew more about the world than anyone .
but it was a world siam was afraid would consume them .
the monsoon winds had whispered her arrival like a coming storm .
some welcomed the rain , but others feared a raging flood .
still she came , unaware of the suspicion that preceded her .
but it wasn' t until years later that i began to appreciate how brave she was and how alone she must have felt .
an englishwoman .
the first i' d ever met .
mother !
come look !
i think they' ve killed someone !
louis , do take care by the railing .
beebe , moonshee , gather your things .
it' s time we went to shore .
i think we should wait until someone from the palace arrives .
if they were coming , they would be here already .
besides , the ship is leaving .
my point exactly .
goodbye , mrs. leonowens .
louis !
louis !
pardon me .
louis , come along , darling .
mother ?
yes ?
why does this king need you if nobody here speaks english ?
the ways of england are the ways of the world .
it' s a wise man who knows that .
memsahib , in less than an hour the newcastle sails , not to return for another month .
tonight we shall all sleep in our own home , i promise .
madam .
a carriage ... where ?
a carriage ?
wait , wait .
what is it ?
over there .
this way , darling .
what do you suppose he' s like , this king mongkut ?
i heard that people used to be forbidden to even look at his face and that they revere him as a god .
you mean like jesus ?
no , hardly !
i suppose if he wishes his son to be tutored in the ways of the west , then i should be quite honored .
but why can' t he just send him to london ?
then you wouldn' t have the chance to learn siamese .
gracious me !
are we sure this is the right road ?
how would we know ?
if you are not the lead elephant , the scenery never changes !
mother , look at those statues !
mem leonowens , kaw rub .
mrs. leonowens ,
his excellency , chao phya kralahome , the prime minister of siam .
have you any friends in bangkok , sir ?
no .
i know no one here .
sir is married ?
a widow .
can you please explain to me why you call me sir ?
women do not stand in the presence of his excellency .
how long are you in possession of dead husband ?
23 months .
how did he die ?
please convey to his excellency that my purpose here is as tutor to the king' s son and it is not necessary to ask personal questions .
please .
in siam , sir , it is custom to first ask questions of personal nature to be polite .
mr. prime minister , i meant no disrespect .
however , getting here was something of a challenge .
sir will be shown to palace quarters .
mem .
i beg your pardon .
the king promised us a home outside the palace walls .
it' s what was agreed upon .
in siam , sir , you will learn everything has its own time .
don' t bother unpacking , moonshee .
it' s only for one night .
it shall be settled to our satisfaction or we' il be leaving as soon as possible .
we don' t have any money .
that is correct , but i do not need to be reminded of that .
it sounds like we' re living in a beehive .
in the morning i shall go to the king .
a monarch who fails to keep his word is uncivilized , unenlightened and ungrateful .
there are principles at stake .
having a proper british household with some privacy is one .
i don' t think siam agrees with you , memsahib .
mother , how can it be a proper household ?
you haven' t lived in england since you were little and i' ve never been there at all .
india is british .
that' s what being colonized is about .
father would have put him right in his place .
i' m very sorry i' m not the man your father was .
i' m sorry , louis .
but this is a good opportunity for us .
i should just ... try to look at the positive side .
assuming there is one .
your father would have .
he was a brave man , wasn' t he ?
yes , very .
and most considerate .
which is more than i can say for this king .
shall we go find your bed ?
come on .
unfortunate your meeting so delayed , sir .
king' s obligation reach into every corner of siam .
it has given me the time to think of many things , including why you pretended not to speak english .
i believe it wise to be cautious .
i will assume that our speaking now is a great step forward .
best not to assume too much .
when presented to his majesty , you and son will remember to touch forehead to floor .
although we have become better acquainted with your customs , we have certainly not forgotten our own .
then how will you greet him ?
with the utmost respect .
mother , are those men speaking french ?
yes .
apparently a warship' s run aground where it shouldn' t have .
it appears sir must wait to meet his majesty another day .
no , i do not think so .
come along .
mem leonowens !
mem !
wait !
please !
your majesty , i am anna leonowens .
i am the school ...
stop !
who ? !
who ? !
your majesty , mem anna leonowens and son louis .
your majesty , we have been kept waiting for nearly three weeks .
i appreciate that you have issues of great importance , but i imagine your son' s education ...
silence !
you ... are teacher ?
yes , your majesty , i am .
you do not look sufficient of age for scientific teaching .
how many years have you ?
enough to know that age and wisdom do not necessarily go hand in hand .
i doubt you would say same for being bold and english .
they are rather inseparable , i' m afraid .
his majesty has not dismissed you .
follow him .
come along , louis .
up , up .
quickly !
you articulate logical answer under pressure , mem leonowens .
that is very kind of you , your majesty .
but irritating superior attitude king find most unbeautiful .
however , it will serve you well given decision i now make .
first impressions can often be misleading .
along with my eldest son , you shall now teach all my children .
come .
the royal family .
23 wives , 42 concubines , 58 offspring , and 10 more on the way .
each one unique .
each one my hope for the future .
i understand your surprise .
not as many as emperor of china , but he did not spend half of life in monastery .
king making up for lost time .
mother , what' s a concubine ?
presenting original pupil and heir apparent .
prince chulalongkorn .
this , my son , is your new teacher .
it is a great honor , your highness .
he doesn' t look too happy about it .
this is a necessary and practical gift i give to you and you must never forget to honor your renowned teacher mem anna leonowens .
must not forget head wife .
the lady thiang .
it is my pleasure that you help make her a fine scholar also .
lady thiang .
welcome , mem teacher .
prince
thongkon yai .
prince suk sawat .
princess kannika kaeo .
and princess fa ying .
i' m not princess .
i' m monkey .
my deepest apologies .
i study her in english myself .
well , your majesty , i am most flattered by your welcome .
and i find the opportunity to be in a school an exciting one .
such devotion to progress is to be commended .
reform is vital for my country' s survival .
as tiny feet change , so too will siam .
but being in a country with so many unique customs , if i am to raise my son to be like his father , which i very much hope he will be , then i must feel free to follow our own traditions .
as a father , i understand .
good .
then his majesty will appreciate why having a home outside the palace walls is of such great importance to us .
a home which had been promised but so far has not been provided .
it is my pleasure that you live in the palace .
but it is not mine , your majesty .
you do not set conditions of your employment .
and you shall obey !
may i respectfully remind his majesty that i am not his servant but his guest !
a guest who is paid .
education begins tomorrow .
he sounds absolutely dreadful , if you ask me .
he did unnerve me , i must say .
moonshee , why does the king have so many wives ?
that is an excellent question for your mother .
mother ?
i heard you , louis .
well , siam is a monarchy just like england .
and one way that a royal family maintains its control in the face of war and disease is to have as many children as possible .
so he needs a lot of wives to take care of them ?
a keen observation , darling .
time for bed .
come and give us a kiss .
does he love all of them ?
in a way .
like you loved father ?
things are very different here , louis .
even love .
go on .
off to bed .
mother , why doesn' t queen victoria have a lot of husbands ?
good night , louis .
presenting royal school , sir .
is anything wrong , sir ?
no .
nothing at all , lady thiang .
louis , that will be your desk .
yes .
well , i suppose class is now in session .
sit down .
greetings , mem leonowens .
my father wish to give sir this to put on path of good teaching .
well , i shall certainly bear that in mind , your highness .
may i compliment you on your english ?
siam population six million , spreading across 49 bountiful provinces , from burma in west to cambodia in east , presided over by king maha mongkut ,
lord of life , whose strength and power reach everywhere .
not in my house , they don' t .
son of teacher is forgetting i am son of king .
son of teacher couldn' t care less .
you will sit somewhere else !
i will not !
louis , remember what i told you .
i' m sorry , mother .
but he started it .
in my country , man never tell woman he is sorry about anything ... ever .
if you had father , you would know that .
you don' t have a father !
you have a map !
louis !
it' s forbidden to touch royalty !
i didn' t !
i shoved you !
get one of your slaves to shove me back !
get off me !
let me through .
excuse me .
stop it , louis .
that' s enough !
why ?
prince insult memory of boy' s father .
998 , 999 , 1, 000 .
finished .
you may go home .
aren' t you coming ?
not until prince chulalongkorn finishes his task .
i' m sorry , lady thiang , but supper will have to wait .
the prince has not yet been dismissed .
his majesty king mongkut afraid schoolteacher might get hungry during long night ahead .
he send food ... for one .
why does my father humble me ?
he wants what' s best for you .
for the moment , that includes me .
why ?
most people do not see the world as it is .
they see it as they are .
and a good king needs a broader view .
stay here , your highness .
what is that smell ? !
she has been chained outside for six weeks .
all because she tried to buy her freedom .
mem leonowens , jao jom manda ung is daughter of very influential family .
yes .
and when la ore offered her the money , she took it .
her mistress took it .
then she accused her of ingratitude and chained her like an animal where the prince and i found her .
heir to throne must never be involved in issue of bondservant .
it will resolve itself in time .
like my house ?
you are learning .
i have been doing much thinking , mem teacher , on why some in this life are masters , like jao jom manda ung , and others slaves .
that is something you need to ask your father , your highness .
but you are teacher .
teach .
this american woman harriet beecher stowe asked the same question .
perhaps you should read her and then we might continue our discussion .
a woman ?
yes .
uncle tom' s cabin .
i shall read it at once , mem .
come along , louis !
quickly .
we don' t want to be late for school .
were you not commanded to leave slave issue alone ?
your excellency , i' m fully prepared to obey his majesty' s commands within the obligation of my duties .
beyond that , i promise no obedience .
you will follow .
la ore purchased her freedom once , and i believe , had i given this woman my ring first , she would have taken it and continued to hold la ore captive .
king' s commitment to noble families must not be compromised .
in your letter confirming my employment , you said you wanted siam to take its place among the nations of the modern world .
you spoke of building something greater than yourself .
a country where no man is above the law .
which is why i chose to come here .
schoolteacher has outstanding memory .
kralahome ...
if you would please honor jao jom manda ung with an explanation of the law .
why did you intervene ?
my conscience demanded it .
and boys ' fisticuffs ?
i beg your pardon ?
i suppose , since you must be both mother and father to son , tendency to overprotect is strong .
louis can fend for himself , your majesty .
it was your son i was protecting .
thank you for the supper .
although i do not think it was necessary .
i know my son .
you would still be there .
perhaps .
but then my point would have been made , your majesty , not yours .
i am king .
yes .
and i am his schoolteacher .
which lesson do you think he learnt ?
to respect his classmates or to fear his father ?
husband must have been very understanding .
my husband was never threatened by my ideas or my opinions .
and because i am also such
i will allow you to always stand upright in my presence , providing head shall never be higher than mine .
thank you , your majesty .
your majesty ,
i believe there has been enough insult caused by this woman , who believes herself to be the equal of a man .
not the equal of a man , chao phya .
the equal of a king .
i make this for you tomorrow .
why , thank you , fa ying .
it' s beautiful .
these are monkeys at summer palace .
and this must be you .
i shall hang it on my wall at home .
i will make another for you yesterday .
then i shall wait for it tomorrow .
lady thiang .
good morning , mem leonowens .
this is lady tuptim .
she' s new in palace , also like yourself .
i wish also to learn writing of english to ... to please his majesty king mongkut .
yes , well , certainly .
but i should hope that it would please lady tuptim as well .
and this is for you .
make sure all of your books are open .
who knows the next letter in the alphabet after e ?
f.
f.
who can tell me which words start with f ?
fa ying loves the river .
yes , she told me all about her journey to ayudhya .
how it is the center of the universe .
it is home to ancient ones and their many legends .
i told her in england we have camelot .
and a big round table .
yes , that' s right .
everyone should have legends , i think .
it allows us to dream .
you' re an interesting mix of fact and fancy , mem .
i suppose it' s because i' m always surrounded by children .
teaching the young is fulfilling endeavorment .
i didn' t have a choice really .
buddhists believe all life is suffering .
take away pain of husband' s death ... takes away mem' s chance to grow .
we might have preferred a different lesson .
yes .
but unique opportunity to change world would have passed to someone else .
louis .
do try and stay in the boat , darling .
he asked about your flag and the significance of the white elephant .
i had no answer .
louis leonowens !
yes , your majesty ?
i am teacher now .
the flag of siam .
red is for ?
courage .
white ?
compassion .
the white elephant is siam' s most rare and honored creature .
perhaps on journey to rice festival we will all see one .
rice festival ?
mother !
mother , look !
there' s moonshee and beebe !
i trust you will find ample space for engaging in english traditions .
even for growing of roses .
out of curiosity , is this because of our agreement or are you simply trying to get rid of me ?
yes .
a little soap and water , and we will have a fine house , mem .
shall i make us some tea ?
yes .
that would be lovely .
i remember my first rice festival .
people come from everywhere to see king .
he bless all crops , and it begin to rain .
i think he was a god .
and now ?
he is also a man .
i feel very fortunate that we' re invited .
one cannot see siam' s beauty living in bangkok , mem .
the mountains are so green and the skies are more blue than even your eyes .
i must find louis .
louis !
may i ask a favor , mem ?
yes , certainly .
to send this .
i wish family to know how happy i am here with king .
i' il tell moonshee to find a messenger straight away .
mem ...
may i ask a question ?
yes .
how did husband die ?
in my arms , actually .
how did mem survive ?
just as you will .
one awful day at a time .
mem sha , louis is teasing me .
he say in england coldness fall from sky like tiny feathers .
why would i lie about snow ?
please , mem , it is too hot .
can make some now ?
just because your father can make it rain doesn' t mean i can make it snow .
at last i discover her limitations .
i have many , your majesty .
father , will you make it snow , please ?
even for you , i cannot .
but i' ve seen photographs of such phenomenon .
blankets of it ... up to here !
louis ...
smoke ?
me ?
jolly good !
no .
no !
but , mother , he' s the king .
my father smoked too .
yes , but your father had already achieved his full height .
i have been smoking since age six .
and some believe me to be a giant among men .
yes .
in intelligence as well as stature , your majesty .
which is why , louis , i' m sure his majesty was only teasing .
i believe now is good time for all children to spread amazing concept of snow to cool off court .
yes ?
yes !
i simply meant to open conversation in controversial fashion mem is so fond of .
i do have my opinions , but they' re merely that .
i wish to compliment you for enlightening children to open minds and taste life .
however , at this time i shall not offer cigar to your son and you shall not teach this book to mine .
chulalongkorn has many questions , but one cannot plow new fields in siam overnight .
i understand , your majesty .
honestly , louis .
i leave you alone for five minutes ...
it was his idea .
just because prince chulalongkorn jumps off a bridge doesn' t mean you must as well .
how can anyone smoke those things ?
your father certainly enjoyed them .
is that why you like him ?
the king , i mean .
because he reminds you of father ?
i think that cigar has clouded your brain , young man .
go on .
go to sleep .
you drag me out at night and turn down five pounds a bushel ? !
french offer seven !
what is the matter with you people ? !
you seem to have a very high opinion of the quality of your produce !
that is the best price you' re gonna get !
i' m not gonna offer any more !
now , we all know that this egg will never fit into this bottle .
it' s a fact .
it' s the truth .
and we rely on truth to make judgments , don' t we ?
what if our judgment is wrong , even when we know for a fact that it must be right ?
do we rely on our eyes or do we believe in the impossible ?
you see , one way to achieve the impossible is to change the climate .
the french say i am uncivilized ruler .
i , who have spent entire life attempting to teach self history , literature , and science .
why would they print such things , your majesty ?
you are english .
you should not be so surprised .
well , i can still be appalled .
more importantly , do you , as a foreigner , see me in this light ?
i do not know all that you are , your majesty .
but i believe i know what you' re not .
and you are not what they say .
thank you , mem ... for humble validation .
i have decided to give self anniversary dinner and invite important english nobles and diplomats .
i don' t understand .
french indochina grows stronger and more aggressive .
but if i improve our foreign intercourse with your queen' s special envoy ,
french will think three times before trying to undermine siam .
that' s very clever , your majesty .
as if to sound english bugles in own defense .
you shall take charge of all formalities as mem is obvious choice to make certain guests feel at home .
but ... the anniversary is when ?
three weeks from yesterday .
three weeks ? !
that' s impossible .
mem ...
the egg is in the bottle .
only half a glass .
we cannot have the servant bowing every time somebody walks into the banquet .
i understand .
just for one night .
thank you , your majesty .
sorry for nervousness .
this is first time in siam history that king allow everyone to stand up in his presence .
but only for tonight .
your country and mine have much in common , your majesty .
rich cultures .
long histories .
and now , it seems , mrs. leonowens .
yes .
my children' s horizons keep expanding under her tutelage .
my husband and i have been stationed all over the orient .
but i must say ...
i' ve never seen anything quite like this .
extraordinary , isn' t it ?
grand palace born from the mind of king taksin .
first man to unify all siam .
our country owes its creation to a man they declared insane .
well , these rooftops are a little nutty .
he endeavored to build an empire , but the nobility that ran siam for generations had grown tired of his wars and replaced him with mongkut' s grandfather , someone they could influence .
taksin they put in a velvet sack , beaten to death with a sandalwood club , and buried somewhere in palace .
oh , dear .
it sounds as though you admire him , general .
i admire vision , lady bradley , in all its forms .
forgive me , your majesty .
i believe the sun set a little earlier today .
mem .
you arrange all this to influence positive future of siam .
and now you steal attention away from it .
well , that was not my intention , your majesty .
mrs. leonowens .
what a delightful surprise , encountering such an enchanting countryman .
and so far from home .
lord bradley , this is indeed a great honor .
i' m half crazy
all for the love of you
it won' t be a stylish marriage
i can' t afford a carriage
but you' il look sweet upon the seat
of a bicycle made for two
gracious ladies , kind sirs , on behalf of 68 brothers and sisters , we thank you immeasurably and bid you most gracious evening .
your son bears a striking resemblance to his father , mrs. leonowens .
i had the good fortune of serving with him a few years ago .
he was a courageous soldier , ma' am .
i thank you , captain blake .
father , may i please kiss good night ?
if i may beg indulgence for not wishing to break family tradition .
i will be there in your dreams as you will be in mine .
good night .
good night .
you have a remarkable family , king mongkut .
a remarkably large one .
hardly seems fair .
all these women for one man .
makes me wish i was siamese myself .
mycroft kincaid ... of east india trading company .
correct ?
guilty as charged , your majesty .
mr. kincaid' s company is merely one of the ways we try to foster economic relations with other countries , your majesty .
also , i think , to arrive at forefront of world in wealth and power .
yes ?
still , progress through commerce is logic .
king find most practical and excellent topic for discussion .
with all due respect , your majesty , it is a little far fetched to think that commerce alone will bring progress to your people .
especially when they' re awash with superstition and fear .
like your lovely concubines here with their talismans , worn , no doubt , to protect them from us foreign devils .
a friend once said , mr. kincaid ,
english also have fantastical beliefs .
or am i mistaking your country for being land of merlin and camelot ?
point taken , your majesty .
however , there is no arguing the superiority of the english .
and in the light of these dreadful massacres up and down your border , it' s no wonder you' re seeking our favor .
superiority , mr. kincaid ?
i do not recall anyone being given the right to judge whose culture or customs are superior .
especially when those judging have frequently done so at the point of gun .
would you not agree , your majesty ?
quite .
well ... the evenings here are certainly warmer than in london .
hear , hear !
a night made to order for anniversary party .
especially for a king who is most charitable and forgiving .
to our host !
a true gentleman , generous in every way .
may history mark this occasion as the first step towards forging an alliance between our two countries .
his majesty !
and in honor of our most distinguished guests a waltz , as is european custom of dancing after dinner .
i must tell you , your majesty , that i have not done this in some time and , seeing as the evening has gone so well , we wouldn' t want to end up in a heap now , would we ?
i am king .
i shall lead .
i never danced with an englishwoman before , mem .
nor i with a king .
i want you to make promise , mem , to always tell king what you think , no matter what .
like to man from east india company .
i always have .
mem .
you' re humming .
yes , i suppose i am .
as alarming as this may sound , beebe , i' m feeling rather at home here now .
what charming people , hm ?
you remember when this marketplace used to terrify us ?
like it was yesterday .
i was afraid that dinner might unsettle you .
all those englishmen in uniform .
yes .
i thought it would make me miserably homesick .
quite the opposite .
i rather enjoyed myself .
even the dancing .
shall we get some of these ?
and how did his majesty fare amongst all your countrymen ?
he was charming .
absolutely charming .
i don' t think i' il ever forget how he stood there , holding his hand out as if i was ...
one of his 26 wives ?
well , thank you , beebe .
i hadn' t thought of it in that way .
well , perhaps you should .
i have a surprise for you .
how ...
how did you ...
i' m not quite sure , actually .
thank you , mem .
my family ... is very important to me .
i shall leave you to enjoy every word then .
your majesty ?
you sent for me ?
ah , yes .
but here ...
look .
something tells me my little monkey did not go to bed
night of anniversary .
yes , i know .
i' ve been presented with drawings of couples dancing ever since .
come .
sit , please .
perhaps you should simply say what it is you' re trying so hard not to .
i share this with you , mem , because i believe you to be trustworthy .
events are happening which i now believe to be of burmese origin , and i fear that military action is unavoidable .
but burma is british .
yes .
then it is not the french that you were worried about , was it ?
i see .
on table , mem , is small gift of appreciation for your many efforts at anniversary party .
mem' s hand has been lonely without such .
it is ... most kind , your majesty .
it' s very beautiful .
though i am terribly grateful ...
it is custom to bestow favors for those who ... who please king .
and mem has done so .
i' m sorry .
i cannot accept such generosity .
i hardly think ten days ' rain warrants the call to battle , louis .
may i suggest a retreat ?
mother , i think i should have a topknot like the other boys .
i think you' ve gone a bit daft , darling .
with all this rain , it' s no wonder .
i don' t see why i have to miss school .
because your classroom' s under water , and i cannot have you ill .
my most precious tuptim .
i know you will understand why i must write this to you .
when you were torn from my heart , i was left with nothing but my faith .
which is why , i flam to live , i must devote my life to buddha .
for only he can give me peace .
i will never forget you .
fa ying was found in the garden , riddled with fever .
difficult even for a grown man to survive such .
cholera always in world but still hardly at all in bangkok .
is there nothing you can do ?
they have already begun .
listen .
phra arahan .
reminding soul to go to heaven and not lose way .
it is why mem must not be heard weeping , as her soul will attach to sadness and remain to comfort living .
his majesty is grateful .
the little one has made frequent mention of sir' s name .
your majesty ?
being as the rain has stopped , the children hoped you might join them for a picnic .
mem .
i will always remember your feelings for my daughter .
and you shall never forget you are not here to teach king .
the children miss you terribly , your majesty .
you cannot shut the world out for ever .
believe me , i' ve tried .
when my tom died , i thought that my heart would never mend .
but then there was louis .
he was my salvation , you see .
and yet you still refuse to live .
i beg your pardon ?
a mother , a teacher , a widow .
but you' re never just ... woman .
that is not fair .
in spite of all you say , mem is not accepting passing of husband .
it is why you so protect son , and why you devote all time to books and issues , and why you cannot accept gift !
why are you doing this ?
because you lie even to yourself .
so do not lecture me about living .
you are not qualified .
these hours are meant for sleep .
you startled me .
i thought it wise to do so .
may i ask what his majesty is doing awake at such an ungodly hour ?
gazing at the moon .
yes , she' s beautiful .
as the sun rises , she will surrender the night .
but she is always with him , even when he cannot see her .
that must be a great comfort to him .
yes .
this come from bangkok .
you may find it of some interest .
it' s from ...
yes .
please to read .
as monkey has stolen king' s spectacles .
your majesty , the united states sincerely appreciates your generous offer to help end this tragic conflict .
unfortunately our country does not reach a latitude which favors the elephant .
we are , however , highly grateful for this indication of friendship .
your good friend , abraham lincoln .
i admire this man for what he is trying to do for his people .
they say at the battle of antietam , 70, 000 men killed each other in one day .
and each one of those soldiers has a father who grieves .
i' m father to all of siam .
mem is not wrong about moving on .
neither were you , your majesty .
when we return , it is time for teacher to teach chulalongkorn and others any subject she wish , as long as king know first , so can be prepared for consequences .
i will do my best , your majesty .
and i was always believing englishwomen slept in hats !
i have been wondering , mem .
when it' s my son' s time to become king , will he be a good one ?
well , he is still a boy , your majesty .
but a keenly intelligent one , with a warm heart and sympathetic soul .
qualities , i believe , of a great king .
i want to thank you for bringing me here to siam .
i cannot imagine anywhere i would rather be .
were you happy in bombay ?
i was never unhappy .
but ...
i find myself traveling from place to place , wondering where it is that i belong exactly .
and i find myself here .
your path is as it should be .
my mind has taken me down many roads of late .
all of which lead absolutely nowhere .
what would buddha say of that ?
that roads are for journeys , mem .
not destinations .
don' t your wives ever get jealous ?
i do not understand significance of question .
forgive me .
i was prying .
no .
please , continue .
well , most of the world believes that a man and a woman should share a relationship which is sacred only unto themselves .
each one of my wives believes same about king .
not everyone can marry you , your majesty .
good thing .
king need his rest sometime .
you said my instincts were good .
and what are they telling you ?
that you are not drinking either .
all the bodies were stripped and left to the sun .
i fear prince chowfa and alak were cremated with the others .
may their souls rest in peace .
you couldn' t have prevented your brother' s death , your majesty .
send my armies north .
if burma wants this war , they shall have it .
lord bradley ?
lady bradley , mr. kincaid .
if i might have a moment of your time .
i' m afraid a moment is all we have .
we are leaving on the next boat , and so should you .
my life is here , lady bradley .
nasty business .
all this sabre rattling .
not good for trade , i can tell you .
the king' s brother is most likely dead , as is his general .
i would hardly call his action unprovoked .
what can i do for you , mrs. leonowens ?
are the british behind these attacks on siam ?
huh !
stick to teaching , mrs. leonowens !
it' s obvious you know nothing about politics .
burma would not make a move without england' s blessing .
that i know .
precisely .
but if this crisis isn' t resolved soon and a country under our protection is threatened , we will have no choice but to defend our interests .
our protection ?
our interests ?
the ways of england are the ways of the world , my dear .
they are the ways of one world , lady bradley .
one i am ashamed to call my own .
you forget yourself , madam .
now if you il excuse us .
no , i will not .
you raised your glass to him !
you commended him for his vision .
and all the while you were waiting to take his country from him .
how the empire conducts its business is really none of your concern .
the last time i inquired , lord bradley , i was still a british subject .
a fact you would do well to remember next time you' re cheek to cheek with the king .
what is it ?
oh , my dear girl .
what have you done ?
what i have done is not result of king or intention to dishonor .
a concubine' s heart is of no consequence to king , consumed with matters of the whole universe .
but , tuptim , why did you not come to me ?
the king might have understood .
you simply can' t do this to him not now !
if love was a choice , who would ever choose such exquisite pain ?
this is what i need his majesty to know .
if such does not compromise you .
i will tell him anything you wish .
i thank buddha for giving me direction .
and now , with mem before me ,
i thank him for giving me true friend .
he wrote to me to bid me farewell , believing i was lost for ever to the inside .
so committed his life to monastery !
stop it !
do you hear me ? !
don' t you dare lay another hand on that woman !
she has done nothing but to try and find happiness !
do not touch me !
i will go to the king !
he will put an end to this savagery !
thank you for seeing me , your majesty .
i was told by your prime minister this was none of my concern .
it is none of mem' s concern .
and king is seeing you now to tell you same himself .
forgive me , but ...
i do not wish for you to talk more on this , mem .
to king or anyone .
i was only trying ...
tuptim broke law !
by loving someone ?
sacrifice your life for truth .
persecute no man . " are these not the teachings of buddha ?
i am king !
and i say enough !
you asked me to always tell you what i think .
what you think ... and what you do and how ... and when you do them are not the same thing .
if you believe i wish to execute this girl ...
but now , because you say to court you can tell king what to do ,
i cannot intervene as i had planned .
intervene ?
after they' re tortured ?
yes !
but you , a woman and a foreigner , have made it seem king at your command .
you have made me appear weak .
and impossible for me to step in and not lose face !
but you are the king .
to remain such ,
i cannot undermine ability to command loyalty ,
which i must have to keep country secure .
you have the power ...
now is not the time to change the way that things are done !
well , if not now , then when ?
how many more people must die so that you might save face ? !
go home , mem .
you help enough for one day .
for the life of me , i don' t know how you people can stand this heat .
you have five minutes , mr. kincaid .
i suggest you not waste them .
i don' t suppose i could have a glass of water ?
right .
then i' il come straight to the point .
as you know , i do a lot of business with the siamese , many of whom have ended up dead in recent months .
which , as i have discovered , is all part of some elaborate plot to make you think we british are the villains .
i happen to know we are not .
the acquisition of a particular little piece of information has cost me a small fortune .
but the fact is , when all is said and done ,
i make more money with mongkut on the throne , so
i think i' m about to become your best friend .
your majesty , alak will not stop until all of your children are in velvet sacks .
kincaid said he' il blame the coup on burma , then launch a full scale attack using your troops already protecting the border .
alak seeks to finish what taksin only dreamed of .
taksin was insane .
no .
he was betrayed .
as we are now .
how long before alak reaches the city ?
a week .
maybe less .
and my armies ?
they will never reach the palace in time .
then he has already won .
i will evacuate the royal family at once .
no .
recall the army .
and announce to the people we have just received glad tidings .
glad tidings , your majesty ?
mother , doesn' t " chahng see kao " mean white elephant ?
do you think they' ve found one ?
yes .
in prachin buri .
entire village has seen it .
the first in 20 years !
i' il see to our tickets .
i don' t want to go , mother .
i don' t want to leave my friends .
the king has done good things too .
your mother has much on her mind .
you said the siamese people are just like us .
and what about chulalongkorn ?
doesn' t he matter any more ?
believe me , darling .
i wish this could all be very different .
it is the right decision .
we must go .
sir .
you of all are most aware there are certain boundaries i cannot cross .
one being to contradict king .
yes .
and god help him .
excuse me .
passage for four on the newcastle .
thank you .
there is no white elephant , sir .
king invented sighting at prachin buri so he can escort royal family to greet imaginary beast , as in tradition .
i don' t understand .
there is a traitor marching on palace .
deception' s only purpose is to hide children in monastery in village of nong khai .
please , mem .
my king believes you are wise .
you are only one who can persuade him to stay with children until army returns to bangkok and palace is secure .
please , mem .
i have just been informed of the nature of your expedition , your majesty .
and i would like to ask a few questions about the dangers involved as i' ve heard , at times , wild elephants cannot be reasoned with .
i am surprised kralahome took time to arouse such curiosity rather than make sure mem not miss her boat .
we have already missed our boat so that i might speak with you now .
king cannot miss his boat .
if it will not be inconvenient , we should like to go with you .
jungle is no place for proper english teacher .
no , it is not , your majesty .
which is why the presence of one in your cortege might help ensure your display .
something i feel , for many reasons ,
i would very much like to do .
when a woman who has much to say says nothing , her silence can be deafening .
i wish to thank you , mem , for your courage .
i thought i never wanted to see you again .
i had a vision of young tuptim and of balat .
i think by touching us all they have fulfilled their destiny and attained eternal peace .
through birth and rebirth , we buddhists hope to learn from our mistakes .
you told me once that i had never accepted the loss of my husband .
i had no right .
no , no .
that was true .
i now realize that it is not enough to just survive .
that life is ... precious .
especially if you re christian and only allowed to have one .
why did you come back ?
because i could not imagine a siam without you .
what has happened ?
you and the children must go on to nong khai without me .
i will meet you there .
i can see it in your eyes .
something awful has happened .
was not to be this way , mem .
alak' s army has found us .
if he crosses the bridge , everything i love will die .
but they' re only children .
yes .
and each one heir to throne .
now ... you must hurry .
what will you do ?
blow up the bridge .
but will that stop him ?
it will if he' s on it .
your majesty , promise me ...
promise me that i will see you again .
if your bible is correct , whole world created in seven days .
therefore possible handful of men can stop an army .
but , father , never has such an expedition excluded royal children .
my son , there are many things you will come to understand when you are older .
why can' t i stay with you ?
because i need you to lead our family to the monastery !
there is no white elephant , is there ?
come .
come .
mother , come look !
the king is waiting on the bridge .
what ?
there' s hundreds of men on the other side .
wait !
stop the carriage .
you !
why did you not go to monastery like king order ?
because i lost one man to the jungle , your majesty .
i was not about to let that happen again .
mem anna not fully to blame , father .
after all , you did put me in charge .
to sound english bugles in own defense .
yes .
when king say handful of men could save all siam , he was most unusually incorrect .
and it be then that all ears hear what all eyes suddenly see .
great white beast in infinite splendor !
where' s the beast ?
great white beast !
and as people rejoice with overwhelming joy ,
most excellent conclusion to expedition echoed in every corner of siam .
the end !
perfect !
you were wonderful !
very , very good .
mem , this is play to commemorate monumental occasion and we make fools of selves because of insufficient practice .
i understand truly , your highness .
but the celebration was tonight !
we were duty bound , were we not ?
were we not ?
yes !
i want you all to imagine next year , when you' ve had time to perfect things .
then your father will be even more proud of you than he already is .
and you , mem ?
will you be ?
i will always be proud of you , my children .
i ... ordered this some time ago for the children , you know .
it' s a fine example of scientific thinking , as music is mathematical in nature .
chords constructed from notes in intervals of thirds , and so on , and so on .
precisely .
i would like to know ... why , if science can unravel something as beautiful as music , why it cannot posit a solution for a schoolteacher and a king .
the manner in which people might understand such new possibilities is also process of evolution .
everything in siam has its own time .
even if king is also wanting it to be different .
i still must go , your majesty .
so , where is it you will be going ?
england .
home .
this is good , mem .
very good for louis as well .
what ?
am wondering if , given circumstances , it is appropriate for king to ask
anna to dance .
i have danced with a king before , your majesty .
and i an englishwoman .
until now ,
madam leonowens ,
i did not understand supposition man could be satisfied with only one woman .
i was only a boy , but the image of my father holding the woman he loved for the last time has remained with me throughout the years .
it is always surprising how small a part of life is taken up by meaningful moments .
most often they are over before they start , although they cast a light on the future and make the person who originated them unforgettable .
anna had shined such a light on siam .
