the best part of a kiss , i find me , it is when we see that head to approximate and we noticed that in the they will give a kiss .
that needs moment previous it is delicious .
i had never felt the touch of another person of my age .
the sensation overstepped me .
i adore .
i adore to kiss . were addicted in that to interlace one in the other , it wants was positive , as in the beginning , it wants negative .
i am with an intense air that it says ' i am so mysterious ,
' and there is so much more to discover , that a mere glance doesn' t reveal ... '
i believe in the destiny , and i believe that me and that person we will be each other . mean to find him/ it more crystalline of the mirrors , and the most faithful mirror , so that , when i love that person ,
i know that that love will be me returned in a reflex .
and there is one more thing , girl archer .
if it doesn' t like of locjleigh , for being a lot of hmida , or something like that , it excuses of some time there to go .
it is not hmida , it was seen to the detail and it is in perfect conditions , but if it doesn' t please him/ her , it is excused to think in there to live . it doesn' t represent any problem , i have several houses .
i found for well to inform her .
there is who doesn' t like of a ditch to the turn .
i adore them .
with certainty it noticed that i don' t fall in love easily ... but when i let to snatch me , it is for a lifetime , girl archer .
for a lifetime .
it looks , it comes the girl there archer .
no , it is going in direco to the house . it goes , therefore .
where is lord warburton ? it was with her .
bunchie , leaves .
gardencourt , england , 1872
it wants him to make him/ her company to dinner , pap ? it would have a lot of taste , but the isabel wants to speak with me .
among , my wanted .
because it doesn' t sit down ?
my uncle ...
i should announce him/ her that the lorde warburton it asked me in marriage .
i well said that you would do a lot of success for here .
the americans are very appreciated , and you are very beautiful , you know .
yes , clear .
i am beautiful !
it can seem of bad taste , and ingratitude ... but i cannot marry him .
you didn' t find yours attractive proposal ? attractive , it was .
there was an instant in that it would have given my minimum finger to accept .
but ...
i judge that first should obtain a general impression of the life . understand ?
there is a light that should blunt .
i cannot explain to him/ it , but i know that it exists .
i am not afraid , does it know ? it is a very different man , it receives 100 . 000 pounds a year , it has six houses to inhabit , and a place in the parliament as the one that i have to my table .
i wait for not having proposed plus ,
leave me very disturbed .
isabel , your uncle is all the right .
you cannot go to london without a decent companion .
my friend henrietta will go with me .
your friend is given to the bomia , and he will want to accommodate in a pension .
ralph enrolled you in his/ her club .
with him , you can go the the whole side .
but it swims here is decent ! ... it likes to be a lot independent , the girl ...
i like , yes .
i cannot hope you proceed always my pieces of advice , but as you neither have father nor mother ,
i hope you listen to them .
i will adore or to hate your friend journalist ?
little it will import him/ her of a form or doutra .
she is not grated with the one that the men think of her .
will it be that will interview myself ?
you are not sufficiently important .
henrietta !
that sad .
morbid , it is not ?
when i wrote you of liverpool , it said that it had a thing special to tell you .
you still didn' t ask me what is .
will it be for you suspect ? to suspect the something ?
what do have to tell me ?
what has to count is you concerning your american admirer .
mr. goodwood came with me in the steam .
that well say .
it came behind you .
what to was he said ?
no .
he didn' t tell me anything .
but i spoke a lot about you .
i lament that have him/ it done .
i made him/ it with pleasure .
i like the way as it listened .
it was so quiet , so attentive . it drank my words .
it already esteems me in surplus , you should not encourage him/ it . it is dead for being encouraged .
i am to see his/ her face and his/ her glance while we spoke .
i never saw an ugly man to seem so attractive .
he is a simple one , and it is not like this so ugly .
your cousin doesn' t make anything else except walking of hands in the pockets ?
what does make it him in the life ? it is very sick , it cannot work .
don' t believe in that .
i work when i am sick .
would like of exhibiting .
it would be a beautiful specimen .
the pap and me mormos here when he worked in the bank , now we didn' t serve ourselves of her .
i adore this height of the day , when it begins to darken .
you not ?
ralph ?
can i light a cigarette ?
you can make him/ it that you aprouver , since you have fun .
that you had you in the idea , when did you refuse warburton ?
it gave me license of revealing you that millstone counted .
didask you for you speak to me ?
no , that not .
it told me because it could not avoid him/ it .
we are old friends and he felt sorry .
that it had me in the idea when did i refuse him/ it ?
that logic dictated such unusual aco ?
unusual reason ?
the man hardly has defects . refused him/ it for being too perfect .
if of this to warburton your final answer , i am happy .
it is not for you , and much less for him , clear ...
i am happy for me .
intend to ask me in marriage ?
refer to the joy that i will have when observing what does a damsel that it refuses the lorde warburton .
which did ask the logic ?
i explain .
it is that cannot escape to my destiny .
destiny ?
my destiny is not to give up .
is to marry with warburton to give up ?
it is a good proposal , but it means to lose other opportunities . something opportunities ?
i don' t refer to the opportunities to marry , but ... to the one of the life .
to give up of the opportunities and dangers .
you answered to my question . it told you very a little .
but it was the most important .
that the world fascinates you , and that you want to dive in him . it didn' t say anything of that .
you wanted to say him/ it , don' t deny .
it is so splendid .
there it is him , great santini .
release !
release !
how did it know that i was here ?
the girl stacjpole informed me .
it was cruelty of his/ her part .
i know that it affirmed that it never again wanted to see me , but i never accepted that rule . it didn' t say that it was forever ...
not for 5 years , then .
10 years , 20 , it is the same thing .
does for what wait to get it , insisting ?
do i cause him/ her a lot of rejection ?
yes .
it doesn' t cause me happiness none .
it doesn' t belong here in way some .
now no .
think about me or no , but it leaves me alone .
until when ?
for one year , or two .
when ?
between an and two years , the difference is abissal . say two , then .
it will marry with other , so certain like me to be here .
i don' t intend to be same to the other ones . probably , i will never get married .
if it hears rumors that i will marry , remember this ... and don' t believe .
dislike to lose her/ it of view .
good bye .
i love her .
behaved very badly with me .
does it want to say that ordered him/ it away ? asked him/ her that it left me alone , and to you i ask for you the same , henrietta .
if you marry you with one of here , i never again speak to you .
still any it asked for my hand .
it rests , that soon will make him/ it .
to annie climber ask lha three times in italy .
to poor and insipid annie .
well , if annie climber escaped , because not have of escaping also ?
i don' t believe that you/ they insisted a lot with her , but with you fa lo o .
do you know where go , isabel archer ?
no , and it is ptimo not to know .
you are to let to crawl for a foolishness .
you make to shudder .
my father suffered an attack of the old maleita .
fear to be quite serious .
happily , dr. hope is for here , and i will certify myself that he comes gardencourt .
there is a fast convoy at 2 : 45 o' clock and you can come with me or no , as you want .
i will go with you , i will already make the suitcase .
i am not rested with isabel .
i fear that marries with an european , and i intend to avoid him/ it .
that habit has of organizing the people' s life .
i want her to get married with mr. caspar goodwood .
vein of boston behind her .
it was here last night .
here in pratt' s ?
it was my outline .
does she like him a lot ? it doesn' t like her , it should like .
he is crazy for her .
three months ago , it implied him/ her that it could accept him/ it , and it is not habit of isabel to leave the people badly , just because it changed of scenery .
isabel ... was it cruel ? it didn' t give him/ her satisfactions , it only wanted to be seen free from him .
poor mr. goodwood .
the lorde matthew had an attack last night .
and i am to shock an influenza .
can it give me any powder ?
with certainty .
a great friend arrived from rome ,
will it take tea connosco ?
it is very beautiful , and his/ her interpretation it still turns him/ it more beautiful .
won' t i have inconvenienced mr. touchett ?
his/ her room is far and i play ... just with the tip of the fingers .
leaning that not .
i believe that to hear music so beautiful woman fa lo to feel better .
i fear that there are moments in the life in that nor schubert has something to tell us .
doesn' t it want to play something more ?
if it gives him/ her pleasure , i will have a lot of taste .
the niece , the american youth is not ?
i am my aunt' s niece .
fortunately .
we are compatriots .
i am the madam merle .
who is there it ?
is my son ?
yes , it is his/ her son , pap .
it is not more nobody ?
more nobody .
a cigarette .
what should do , when i go me , it is to marry .
what do find of your cousin ?
if i understood well , it is his/ her intention what do i marry isabel ?
well , it is that that sets up , after all .
don' t you like isabel ?
a lot .
i like isabel a lot . meditated a lot in this subject .
also me . it doesn' t cost to admit me him .
are you in love of her , then ?
it is good that you are , until it seems that it came on purpose .
i am not in love of her , but ... if certain things were different .
the things are always different of what they could be .
i won' t live many years , but i hope you/ they arrive to see the one that isabel does of his/ her life .
would like to do something for her .
to turn her rich .
rich , in what felt ?
i consider rich a person that it gets to accomplish the requirements of his/ her imagination .
to do the one what him aprouver ?
at all .
beautiful boy .
won .
quiet .
who is this madam merle ?
it is charming . it plays beautifully . it makes everything beautifully .
you don' t like her .
on the contrary , i was already in love of her .
and didn' t she love you ?
is it for that what don' t like of her ?
how could we put such subjects ?
the monsieur merle was still alive .
is it now is dead ?
second that she says .
don' t you believe in her ?
i believe .
it would be of waiting that the husband of the madam merle died .
do i arrive late ?
i ask for forgiveness .
no , in way none .
did it already repair that beautiful roads cross the property ?
us american we give european bad , because we don' t have own room here .
but i think , for a woman , never an own place exists .
wherever be , it has to float , and above all to crawl .
i will never crawl .
because , i don' t see her/ it to crawl ...
and the men , the americans ?
see ralph touchett' s poor .
what illustration type does it make him ? happily , it is consumptive .
i say happily , because it serves him/ her of occupation .
the disease is his/ her career , a type of position .
if it didn' t go so sick , it would make something . would take the father' s position in the bank . doubt .
he doesn' t like the bank .
good friends are not ?
we are !
but he doesn' t esteem me .
what evil did do him/ her ? it is not necessary to have a reason .
for not esteeming her/ it of itself ?
it would be necessary to have a very strong one .
i adore the english rain .
it always falls a little , never too much at the same time .
it doesn' t wet , and it always smells well .
that delicacy !
hum , delicious !
because it is !
everything gave to have his/ her age , and all my life for the front . it still has her/ it for the front .
no .
the best part it already left , and for anything .
for anything , certainly it was not .
because not ?
what do have me ?
nor husband , nor children , nor fortune , and nor my house at least .
what would like to do , what has not already made ?
i am very ambitious .
for me , it represents the image of the success .
my dreams were grandiose .
faria a ridiculous illustration if it spoke about them .
would like him to be with this .
i will visit six different places , and i know that i won' t find anybody of who likes as much as of itself .
he left me this house , but naturally i will never inhabit her .
i have a much better in florence , as you know .
and ralph is with gardencourt . calm , there is a notable clause in the will of my husband .
do i order to do tea ? it left a fortune to my niece .
a fortune ?
isabel inherits about 70 . 000 pounds .
intelligent creature .
florence
it seems to be very delicate .
it is really beautiful .
when the mother died , i sent you my daughter so that they educated her .
i had faith , they know .
she is perfect , it doesn' t have defects . have the connosco from little .
it is not right that lose her .
for very good that it is , it is not like us .
it was cut for the world .
nothing is still decided .
only in the color it is that you/ they differ , nun .
so much have in a branch as in the other .
is here anybody ?
it is .
somebody that you can see .
madam merle .
i came to give you the welcomes .
cannot i go to the coach ? preferred that you were here with me .
i hope you/ they see you use gloves .
the girls as you dislike them .
that was formerly , now taste of them . will give you a dozen , of present .
and will they be very beautiful ?
not in surplus .
she will offer some gloves .
it is your a lot of kindness , but it already has everything that needs .
i would say that it already owes to be fed up with nuns .
if we will talk about that , she should leave . we will speak about other things .
wanted , you are going to the garden to pick a flower for our friend ?
it is quite so that i want do .
i want you to make a thing when you are in florence .
i have a person there becomes friends that i want that you know .
that it serves me that ?
will amuse you .
if at least you made an effort ... ah , very well . it already knew that will upset me .
of who here comes to stop , will there be anybody what deserves the effort ?
be not foolish , osmond .
the person with whom i came to meet ... it is a niece of mrs. touchett . it is a 23 year old youth .
i met her in england six months ago .
i like her vastly .
and , what is rarer for me , admire her .
you will make the same .
only if it cannot avoid him/ it .
and you won' t be able to .
it is beautiful , smart , rich , splendid , universally intelligent , and virtuous incondicionalmente ?
just in those terms it would want to know her .
i already know a lot of common people , i don' t want to know more .
the girl archer is not common .
fill out all your requirements .
more or less , clear .
not .
literally .
what do intend to do with her ?
what sees .
to put her/ it in your road .
doesn' t it deserve something better ?
i don' t know what deserve the people ,
i only know what can do of them .
poor girl archer .
if that is interest for her , volume note .
you are with good air .
you always have good air when you have an idea .
are you always well .
let' s hope you didn' t go so cold .
it always harmed you , and it will harm you now .
i am not as cold as judge .
once in a while , something plays me .
as that that you ambition for me .
because it must be interested the niece of mrs. touchett , if ...
do i raise interest so a little ?
it was not that that wanted say .
if i knew and i appreciated a woman like you .
isabel archer is better than i.
did you already see the last ones what did ?
that is not a sketch of last year ?
that what made in spain ?
i already got better very ever since .
i don' t like your drawings .
they are much better than the one of the other ones .
but as only occupation , is a little .
it saw you to do so much other things , my ambitions .
impossible things .
impossible things .
your room , that is perfect . frighten me whenever here i return .
you have very good taste .
i am fed up with my good taste .
you have to bring the girl here archer .
as guide of your own museum , you become very attractive .
did say that it was rich ?
no there is doubt that has fortune .
do you think it does me well to be so rich ?
henrietta doesn' t think so .
henrietta that deteriorates .
if you want to know , i am charmed .
did you know that your father intended to leave me so much money ?
what does import it ?
it was very obstinate .
then you did know ?
yes , it told me .
as it knew if i would give good use to such a big fortune ?
how did it know that i am not weak ?
don' t question so much what is good or bad for you . it lives as you more aprouver , that your carcter will make the rest .
i doubt that you measure well your words , because , if you make him/ it , you take a lot of responsibility .
the facade is of the century xvl , but the interior is older .
osmond rarely invites me ,
i am that i remembered to come here today .
i like to know new people , and i am right that it is very new .
if it doesn' t sit down there , that chair is not what seems .
there are good seats here , but there are also some horrors .
pee !
i don' t see nenhuns .
everything i think beautiful and precious . thank you .
i have some good things .
in fact , i don' t have very bad .
poor osmond , with their reposteiros and crucifixes .
doesn' t it want a tea ? it should be tired .
i am not .
what did make me that it got tired ?
it will be tired when it goes home , if he shows him/ her the trinkets , and it gives him/ her a lecture for each one .
but i will have learned something . can be liked or not of a thing , but not to question the reason it gave taste .
some good feelings , are they very bad rights , doesn' t it find ? it is a beautiful day .
will we walk ?
and there are also bad feelings , that you/ they are very good rights .
this hill is impossible ...
it is not pleasant to hear gasping of our mounted one .
girl archer , what does of my sister find ?
don' t ask me that question .
little was with her .
yes , that is true , but ...
i like to know that it idealizes does of her a fresh mind and without prejudices .
per times i find that we are badly habituated ,
living here between people and things that you/ they are not ours .
it is quite unhappy and not being her a serious person , it doesn' t demonstrate him/ it dramatically , but yes laughably .
does it want him to lower that picture ? it needs more light .
this was one of the first pictures that i bought in italy . were enough to see me once the girl , that i liked her soon .
me also .
that strange way of showing him/ it . advise her the if it doesn' t afflict .
the case involves three people stronger than you .
three people ?
you and osmond , clear .
but the girl archer is very strong ?
as much as us .
they are capable of everything , you and osmond .
they are dangerous .
then it is better to leave us in peace .
the madam merle said that it had plans of traveling for the world .
i am embarrassed of my plans .
everyday i make a new one .
because it would owe if it embarrasses ? it is the largest of the pleasures .
i made one there are years ago , and still today follow him/ it .
it must have given a lot of pleasure .
and it gave .
a very simple plan .
it was to be the quietest possible .
not to worry, not to make an effort or to struggle . to be satisfied with very a little .
wide years i started to accomplish him/ it and i don' t have myself given badly .
feel more civilized for speaking with itself ... but soon it will leave , and we won' t see each other more .
it is like this , to live at a tourist country .
it already had occasion of walking for florence ?
calm , you that know everything ...
that finds strange creature walks to do the cut to my niece ?
gilbert osmond ?
credo , that idealizes ...
had not it happened you ?
it came here five times in two weeks .
feel very foolish , but i should admit that not .
will it have happened to isabel ?
i will ask him/ her .
don' t give him/ her ideas . it asks mr. osmond before .
i am not able to .
i don' t want him/ it to interrogate me with that air . ask him/ her me .
investigate , and i swallow you the report .
she is very capable of marrying with him for their opinions , or for miguel ngelo' s autograph .
with license .
it wants me to go with her caparola .
what do go with her ?
while she there is .
she is that it proposed him/ it .
but i gave him/ her the opportunity .
i don' t work a lot in knowing him/ it , but you don' t sing victory already .
of course goes .
it will give me work , your idea .
don' t fake that you don' t like .
caused very good impression , and i see that it is reciprocal .
so many visits his/ her house they were not alone to please me .
the girl is not unpleasant . it just has a defect .
which is ?
too much ideas .
informed you that it was smart . happily , they are whole very bad .
happily , reason ?
anything if it loses with his/ her sacrifice .
you are unfathomable . scare me the abyss in that i threw her .
now you cannot retreat .
you went too far .
very well .
but you will make the rest .
it is incredible .
this whole work , and they paid them a trifle for him .
forgot about the parasol .
i will return .
i go .
it is not necessary .
does it want to take a coffee ?
yes , thank you .
then it did decide to come ? arrived last night .
the others are up there .
i didn' t come for the other ones .
i came to say good bye .
who knows if it will return ?
anything she forces .
does it find my ridiculous trips ?
not .
go the the whole side , make everything .
be happy , be triumphant .
what does with triumphant mean ?
to do that that pleases him/ her .
to do the things that it pleases us for vanity it can be tiresome .
exactily , one day will get tired .
i don' t know if it waits there to tell him/ her a thing .
i am not able to aconselh lho without to know that is .
i am horrible when i am tired .
i don' t believe .
sometimes get annoyed , that believes , but i know that it is never horrible .
nor when do i lose the judgement ?
the judgement doesn' t get lost , it is .
and that should be beautiful .
if at least it could find him/ it now .
it doesn' t scare me .
crossed the arms and it was to admire her .
the one that wanted say him it is that to i love .
no , that is better to wait .
not . it can give me heard now or never , but in any way i should say him/ it .
i am quite in love of itself .
don' t say that , please . it won' t have importance for itself .
i don' t possess fame , nor fortune , nor anything to offer .
i judge until being happy for we will separate .
if it didn' t leave now , i would know myself better . it will be for again .
there is only a more thing .
a small favor that i ask him/ her .
childbirth for rome inside of days . it will visit my daughter before leaving of florence ?
yes , with certainty .
isabel !
isabel , are you there in low ?
your coffee is to cool !
do you get to see her there in low ?
it is dark .
hello .
they are the most beautiful gardens of the world .
it is not that i have state for everyone .
the pap says that while he is out should not pass of this line .
your father that said ? it thinks that can burn .
here . it shares my parasol .
what was ?
you should do what your father says .
it will never ask you that you make anything of foolish .
my trip
there it is .
eight , nine , ten .
pardon .
no , not .
what wants saying is that i am quite in love of itself .
i am quite in love of itself .
i am quite in love of itself .
i am quite in love of itself .
i am quite in love of itself .
i am quite in love of itself .
florence , one year later
nor it imagines as i wanted that it didn' t come .
i don' t doubt .
i informed him that it would do what wanted . it wanted him to explain to me what took her/ it to change of ideas .
does it think i owe him/ her explanations ?
it was very favorable .
i believed .
i didn' t deceive him . it was not committed .
when i read his/ her letter , i judged that could be a mistake .
there is no mistake none .
i did what wanted .
578
i saw her .
579
it wants to say that came just to look me ?
you didn' t come to eat lunch .
i am not hungry .
582
you should eat .
you live of the air .
i still didn' t congratulate you .
found strange that silence .
i didn' t recompose myself of the surprise since my mother told me .
you are the last that i hoped to see captured .
i don' t know because you say ' captured ' .
you will be put in a cage .
if it likes of my cage , you don' t have to worry .
it had built a charming vision of your future .
had entertained myself the planear a high purpose for you .
it would not include anything of this gnero .
you would not let to fall so easily . ' to abate ' ?
it hurts me .
hurt me , as if it was me to fall her .
i don' t understand you .
i would say that the man for you it would have a more nature ... activa , wide and free .
i don' t adjust to the sensation that osmond is something ... 601 ' small ' .
i find him/ it short .
selfish . are taken very seriously to him own .
he is the image of the good taste .
his/ her taste is excellent .
you already saw a taste like this , excellent , when is it contradicted ?
i never hope to lack to the good taste of my husband .
that is ptimo .
it is formidable !
it is it that all the wives they should want .
but you were not destined to do something better than to take care of an amateur' s sensibility ?
it said what left in the soul .
said him/ it because i love you .
then you are an interested part .
love you , but without hope .
i see mr. osmond in another way . it is not person important , or rich , and it doesn' t have title , honors or lands .
if to that you refer when calling him/ her small , him be the really .
i call that to be big .
it is the largest greatness that i know .
it has him/ it more gentile , the kindest and light of the spirits .
you do a wrong idea of him .
it is feather not to change her .
they think that i only want his/ her money .
how do you know him/ it what think ?
you didn' t tell me that you/ they are happy , and if they were , they demonstrated him/ it .
it only imports me a thing that you don' t have doubt shadow .
you know that no , nor a shadow .
never in my life i tried to win a cash , and it should be more above suspicion that who delves into and it collects .
i won' t fake that i lament that you are rich .
i am charmed .
per times i wanted to kneel down in my uncle' s gravestone , to thank him/ her . to love you it turned me in a better man .
i am not it failed that it judged to be .
i will marry with the woman that i adore , and i got to educate my daughter to the old fashion .
it will be entertaining we create a vidinha for her .
rome , three years later
what more it has , besides their spanish incomes and of the service of tea ?
my coleco is appreciated , and i have a small income ... about 40 . 000 francs a year .
the girl osmond and me we lived beautifully with that . beautifully ?
no . modestly , yes .
his/ her father cannot give him/ her a gift .
he lives abastadamente .
the money belongs to the woman . it brought him/ her a great fortune .
mrs. osmond esteems the stepdaughter a lot , maybe help .
for a passionate man , it is very lucid .
probably , it will want the money for their own children .
their children ?
certainly that it doesn' t have them . it can still have them . it had a poor rapazito that it died there are almost two years .
lament a lot .
it is an amazing woman .
i don' t say that his/ her proposal be of the best , but it could be worse .
however , his/ her father will judge to be capable to arrange better .
for him maybe , but ... the best for his/ her daughter it is to marry with the man that loves .
and it loves me .
however , i speak to mrs. osmond .
not .
don' t put her/ it in agitation , or else it destroys everything .
his/ her husband will be doutra opinion . advise him/ it to not to increase the discord points among them .
don' t play in the subject until me to have made some surveys .
don' t i play in the subject ?
but i am passionate !
it doesn' t die ...
where is pansy ?
it already went down .
detested his/ her proposal .
i made him to see that , and i was abrupt on purpose . tell him/ her that you need time .
don' t make that , that he is to the wait . dislike to speak with asses .
he is a gentleman . it has a charming workmanship , and a comfortable income .
it is a poverty .
a noble poverty .
it was not what i dreamed for pansy . happily , i am not unaware . educated her for this , everything this , for , in the case of appearing a situation of these , she to accept my decision .
they never treated me like this .
i don' t know what have against me .
used to be disrespect .
it could already have married me 20 times . it doesn' t have means for pansy .
she is not interested in money .
no , but his/ her father is interested .
because , of that it knows you .
offended her , and now no longer it helps me .
it is not because it doesn' t want .
i am not able to .
isabel , i swallow you an old friend .
lord warburton . arrived this late . it knew that you/ they would be home on thursday , therefore i came .
the fame of your thursdays england arrived .
we are very flattered .
i am very happy in seeing her .
let to already tell him/ her to me that it brought ralph touchett with me .
it didn' t come , it was at the hotel .
it was too tired to come .
because he came to rome ? it is very badly , mrs. osmond . it doesn' t get to maintain hot .
the more for south we come , minus he seats the cold .
if it allows me , i think this was the worst height for mrs. touchett to go to america .
do you know him/ it what your father told me ?
don' t speak loudly , they are going all to hear . it said that you already forgot me .
no .
i didn' t forget you .
is everything in the same ?
in the same , not .
the pap was very severe . it prohibited me of marrying with you .
do you have to give him/ her ears ?
i cannot disobey to the pap .
and do you sacrifice me like this ?
i love you as much as always .
that it serves me that ?
don' t say anything else .
the pap it doesn' t want him to speak more to you .
it is too much .
can i introduce him/ it to the people ?
please it doesn' t make him/ it .
unless it is to that young one seating to the table . it has a charming face . it is the daughter of my husband .
that beautiful girl . it has that to know .
inside of moments .
i like of observing of here .
it knows , it changed a lot .
yes , enough .
i don' t say that it went to worst , clear .
but how to say that went for better ?
i think after all am not going to sicily .
don' t you go ?
where will you go then ?
i think to side none .
will you return england ?
no , i will be in rome .
rome doesn' t serve you .
rome is very cold .
here i settle .
i recommend that you try sicily .
i won' t try .
i don' t have forces .
i don' t get to face the trip .
and i don' t have there nor a cousin .
what does the doctor say ?
i didn' t ask , i am me in the paints .
to die here , they bury me .
you won' t die here .
i don' t believe that she is so cold . it is very changed .
it was osmond .
you ask her for the doctor' s opinion .
the doctor' s opinion destroyed everything .
you will sacrifice the health to your curiosity ?
the health i don' t concern a lot .
i concern a lot mrs. osmond .
to me also .
not as much as it already interested .
if it is to enhance that facto what did go so nice for the small ?
did that seem you ridiculous ?
there is a difference of ages , clear .
more than 20 years .
my dear warburton , speeches seriously ?
as much as it is necessary .
fortunately .
and god knows as that will encourage osmond .
don' t destroy everything .
do you think she will be happy ?
the small ?
charmed , clear .
no , mrs. osmond .
the lorde warburton was here .
yes . it was here half hour .
did he speak to pansy ? it almost only spoke to her .
i think very kind .
doesn' t it seem you ?
i don' t have to seem .
i leave the opinions for you . give in the license ?
here is a consideration that not always you demonstrate .
this time , it had decided to act how you wanted .
are you to want to discuss with me ?
no , i am to try to live in peace .
it is a ptima resolution .
your gnio have not been good .
therefore , i didn' t speak to you in my daughter' s subject . it feared to find opposition .
i ordered small rosier to his/ her life .
to my daughter , it is enough to be him/ her very quiet to be lady warburton .
maybe be not very quiet ... it gets lost mr. rosier , it can riot .
pansy wants to be a great lady , and it wants above all to please .
to please mr. rosier , maybe .
no , to please me .
however , it would like that our different visitor if it manifested .
it already made him/ it .
told me that it would have a lot of pleasure if she could love him .
because you didn' t tell me ?
i didn' t have opportunity .
you know how we lived .
because it didn' t speak to me him ?
you have to be patient .
english are shy .
this was not , when it made you the cut .
how do you say ? it went him and enough . understand .
you should have a lot of influence in him .
i know that , badly want , you take him/ it to declare .
well ...
it is in your hands , and there it will be .
with a little willingly , you will get . it thinks about that , and it reminds you that story with you .
pansies , they should belong to her .
yes , give millstones to hold .
can i catch them ?
can i be with a flower ?
the things that i do for itself !
don' t put her/ it in the lapel !
it feels sorry for me ... ... but doesn' t it have any feather of her ?
promised me later a dance . did ask for him/ her the ' cotillon ' ?
i didn' t ask him/ her that .
it is a ' quadrille ' .
it was not smart . told him/ her to keep him/ it ' cotillon ' in the case of lho to ask .
poor girl , didn' t tell me anything .
of course will make him/ it , if it wants .
if i want ?
oh , will it dance with her because i want ?
fear to upset her .
it seems to have many young in the card .
it lets to see me if i understand .
does it understand each other the something ?
told me that it wanted to marry with my stepdaughter .
didn' t it forget ?
i wrote to mr. osmond this morning . it didn' t say to have received his/ her letter .
it is a letter difficult to write .
don' t forget sending .
don' t dance ?
no , if it doesn' t go with her .
it should leave although , then .
only when she goes .
who is his/ her unhappy friend ? it was with funeral face . it is right for such .
my husband doesn' t give him/ her ears . it seems to be a different youth . kindness yours , even to a rival .
a rival ?
don' t tell me that she likes him ?
yes , i think it likes . told me that his/ her desire it would be it of his/ her father , and that he prefers me . it said that she had an enormous one i want of pleasing the father .
it seems a lot of correcto .
a lot of correcto ...
but never a feeling the one that a man wants to owe a wife' s obtaining .
because it is so contradictory , so skeptic ?
it dances divinamente .
thank you .
would like to put a subject .
it is on the lorde warburton .
is he even in love ?
yes , i believe that it is him really .
it is noticed .
seem disappointed .
no , just mistaken .
judged that it had understood that he doesn' t love pansy .
pansy , not .
but have just said that yes . it said that he loves you .
that is a foolishness .
to me , it denied him/ it .
you don' t help me .
you should be so unhappy .
when i say help , i say a foolishness .
only the idea of inconveniencing you with my domestic embarrassments ...
your husband will find that you didn' t insist enough .
a subject that badly can discuss , because all the interest is of his/ her part .
do you know him/ it what that will do him to say ?
that your negligence if it owes to the jealousy .
to the jealousy ?
of his/ her daughter .
you are not kind .
you are frank with me and you will see .
if it knows what you intend , what wants ... can act in conformity .
the only thing that i intend in the life it is to marry with mr. rosier .
your father would like you to do a better marriage .
what does want me to do ?
the lorde warburton ... it has really been showing kind .
it is wanted to say that he will ask my hand , i think it makes a mistake .
your father would have in that the largest taste .
the lorde warburton won' t ask my hand to please to the pap .
there is no danger .
there is no danger .
it is as if he had me statement , ' i like you a lot ,
' but if it doesn' t please you , i will never repeat him/ it . '
and plus , he doesn' t also love me .
not .
there is no danger .
you should say that to your father .
preferred him/ it not to do .
would not you let to have him/ it vain hopes ?
for me , it was better than had them .
like this , it would not propose more nobody , and that would be a great advantage for me .
rosier .
it will have warburton so much difficulty in forming their words ?
when it told you that it would write , what did answer him/ her ?
that if it didn' t forget . seemingly , it forgot . it has the kindness of reminding him/ it .
if you want to lie down the hand to warburton , it lies down her you .
it is not easy .
you are against me . it told you that it would make the possible .
that made to win you time .
my husband and i spoke about itself . asked where it would be .
we judged that if it had been absent .
i am to leave .
i am forced england to return .
lament to leave the poor touchett .
light the poor touchett get . it should await the hottest time . it would not advise him/ it to travel now .
i have a letter to write before dinner .
does it give me license ?
when it is in rome , come to do us a visit .
fortunately it is the last time .
also me .
she doesn' t like me .
good night , pap .
good night . it sleeps well .
you still don' t go .
i want to speak with you .
i don' t understand what intend . intend to lie down , i am tired .
i think you are me to try to humiliate .
you are to do a complicated game .
you controlled him/ it very well .
what did control me ? always had this case in the hand . will mean me without circumlocutions that you accuse me ?
of having impeded the marriage of pansy with warburton .
was it without circumlocutions ?
i made an effort for turning the reality . wanted my support , and i agreed .
i went a fool , but i made him/ it .
you faked that you made him/ it .
the letter that you said what did he have writing ?
i don' t make idea .
you destroyed her .
for somebody that was so noble ... i never went as noble as you . had everything that you intended . removed him/ it discreetly of the road , and to me you put me in the position in that you see me , a man that tried to marry the daughter with a lord , and it failed .
pansy doesn' t like him .
it doesn' t interest !
and he doesn' t like ... you told me that it liked ! from now on, you will be you to treat her of these subjects .
i always judged that you esteemed my daughter .
never as much as now .
your esteem has enormous limitations . however , that maybe is natural .
is everything it what wanted me to say ?
are you satisfied ?
find me sufficiently disappointed ?
i think you are not disappointed of completely . had another opportunity of doing me of stupid .
it is not that ...
pansy has a good future for the front .
it knows that cannot return for alone england .
it didn' t intend to do him/ it .
i take people with me . people as ?
servants pagos for itself ?
after all , they are human beings .
i think i will go with itself .
will it go with me ?
i know that it doesn' t have me esteem , but i will go with itself .
and plus , i will take care of itself .
have him/ her a lot of esteem .
don' t judge that can buy me .
fear to serve as wood of hair .
mrs. osmond wants him to travel with itself .
but that is not the main .
the main is that she wants that i leave rome . it wants that all of us leave rome .
it is very kind of his/ her part .
nor i tell him/ her how kind i find him/ it .
and is it like this that it orders me away ? it has to return one day of these .
i don' t like his/ her cousin .
is it that what wants me to say ?
i don' t want to tell him/ her thing none .
i cannot understand .
in what have of believing ?
what does want me to think ? would like to know if it is happy .
for me would be something . it says that it is happy , though ... it is so static , so polished , so ... rigid .
it is very changed .
everything hides .
i didn' t approach itself . it approached a lot .
seem very happy for you see yourself free from us .
my dear ralph !
little time passed with you , but it was better than none .
i heard your respect a lot .
i don' t know for who , living the life that you take .
they were the voices that the wind takes .
you have been my best friend .
it was for you that i wanted to live , but of anything i serve you .
if you sent for me , i came .
your husband would never consent him/ it .
it would not like , but i maybe came , even so .
hoped here to see the lorde warburton , and to congratulate pansy . it should not have gone to naples . it should have been for the outcome .
does it think it is too late ? finished .
give him/ her rest ...
osmond certainly will like of talking with itself on that .
i already know what he thinks , it came yesterday to visit me .
badly it did arrive ?
his/ her husband censures her severely .
wait .
please .
if possible , i want to know the truth .
what truth does the one refer ?
just to this ...
the lorde warburton changed of ideas of his/ her own motorcycle , or because lho recommended ?
for pleasure of him , or for yours ?
be reasonable .
don' t be offended .
if the lorde warburton it got tired of the poor child , that is a thing , and it is a feather .
but if he gave up of her to please him/ her , that is already other .
if it goes that the case , free him/ it .
leave him/ it for us .
who are you ? it reacts like this !
what does have to do with my life ?
everything .
it would give my right hand to cry .
what could that make well ?
faria to feel ... as it felt before knowing you .
if i made to dry off the tears , it is good , but ...
i already saw to flow you them .
i believe that you will make to regret me , and to howl as a wolf .
i deserve that .
this late was vile .
i was horrible .
it can be that have statement things of bad taste . it was full of something bad , or something good .
i don' t know , it was stronger than i.
you didn' t dry me only the tears , you dried me the soul .
you are very wicked .
is it like this that will end ?
as they finish the wicked people ... as for the crimes that shared ?
did me as bad as you .
to me you seem me good .
my god !
after all you will cry .
some time i complained ?
of course didn' t complain .
you enjoy too much your victory . made your wife to fear you .
this late feared me , but it belonged to you that it was afraid .
i didn' t go me that had this idea .
your mill unchained her .
i only ask that my wife is considered . would owe her to be considered so much ?
if you do a tragedy of that , the tragedy won' t be for her .
it will be for me .
will suffer the consequences , and you will make the same .
caution with that valuable objecto . it already has a lower case splits .
as my wife doesn' t esteem me , will look for comfort near pansy .
happily, i don' t find him/ her a single defect .
it hears what tell you ! it leaves me !
mrs. osmond ?
mrs. osmond !
i was in paris !
i sold my coleco !
50 . 000 dollars !
it will be that mr. osmond does it find me sufficiently rich ?
pee , eats the food .
beautiful pee !
pansy is not well ?
it is very well .
i ordered her/ it to the convent .
i didn' t tell you because i doubt that it manages to do to understand each other .
our daughter is wanted breeze and beautiful woman .
pansy it is a little withers and shaky .
it will have time for reflectir .
i want that her reflicta in a thing .
everything is very absurd , dear osmond .
because you don' t say what do want moved away her/ it of me ?
if that was the case , it would be simpler to banish you .
you know that i have in a lot of bill mr. rosier .
in a lot of bill even .
i think simpaticssimo .
it made me to believe in the absolute love .
excuse ...
when i am going to your room , i always beat . forgot .
i have more in than to think .
my cousin is to die .
i don' t believe . it was to die when casmos .
it will bury us to all .
my aunt sent me a telegram .
i have to leave for england .
i don' t see the need .
i have that seeing before dying .
it doesn' t please me that you go .
it doesn' t please you that i don' t go .
anything than i do you pleases .
you fake to think that i lie .
is it for that reason that you go ?
not to see your cousin , but for you avenge yourself of me ?
want intensely that i commit a foolishness .
if you leave today , it will be an acto deliberate and calculated opposition .
nor you know how unjust you seem me .
it is your opposition that is made calculations .
it is evil .
my ideal defines him/ it that the my wife owes or she should not do . it should not cross europe for to sit down in the other men' s bed .
your cousin doesn' t mean anything .
nor for you , nor for us .
you make an expressive smile when i speak about us , but i assure you that us ... us , mrs. osmond ... everything is that counts .
you are closer of me that any other human creature , as well as me i am of you .
it will be an undesirable proximity , but it is fruit of our creation .
you don' t like that me to reminds , but i make him/ it willingly , because i have faith that should accept the consequences of our aces , and that that more values in the life it is the honor of the thing in itself .
it tells me a funny book to read .
will this here be good ?
my cousin ralph is to die .
it was so nice .
lament a lot .
it is with bad to seem .
osmond said that there cannot go .
and because that osmond said ?
because we are so happy the two that cannot separate .
it is very unhappy .
i am , but i don' t find that can comfort myself .
does it give me license that tries ?
i want him to know a thing ...
maybe already it knows , or have guessed .
in his/ her place , it had already guessed .
did it never suspect , at least ?
did suspect of something ?
my first sister in law it didn' t have children .
still nor it had done three years married , and it died without leaving children .
pansy is not daughter of my husband ?
of his/ her husband in the perfection , but of his/ her wife , not .
my dear isabel !
i get , there is to put the points in the ii .
of who it is ?
she has been very smart , formidable in relation to pansy .
it never happened him/ her what calm merle lover of him was during six or seven years ?
finally understand .
surprise him/ her that i here am , and fear that doesn' t please him/ her .
it should have asked him/ her for permission .
i came to see pansy .
i remembered that it would be very only .
that that is a little sad .
for that i came , to the ...
doesn' t it think it was more beautiful ?
yes . it seems comfortable .
i came to say good bye .
i am going to england .
for not returning ?
my cousin is very sick .
don' t leave me here .
do you want to come now with me ?
did the pap tell him/ her that it asked ?
not .
it was my idea .
then it is better i to wait .
he judges that i still didn' t gorge , but i already gorged . it wanted me to meditate a little , and i meditated enough .
what conclusion did the one arrive ?
i should not never displease to the pap .
decided to wait for itself , but it is not to speak of pansy .
does it have a lot of esteem for his/ her cousin ?
i don' t understand you .
his/ her cousin did him/ her once a great favor .
did it never guess him/ it ? it turned her rich .
did turn ?
the money belonged to his/ her uncle , but the idea belonged to his/ her cousin . convinced the father to accept her .
i don' t know because it tells me this .
i don' t know how it can know .
i don' t know except that that i guessed , and i guessed this .
in the bottom , it should thank him/ her . judged that should thank itself .
i know that it is very unhappy , but i am more .
it is not wonderful what has come ?
what such the crossing was ?
very good .
no !
no , i think it was stormy .
does he get to see me ?
does it get to speak ?
you can try .
no there is any hope ? absolutely none .
there was never .
it is your a lot of kindness have come .
i thought you would come , but it was not the sure .
i didn' t also have , until coming .
for me everything ended .
let' s hope it also had finishing for you .
what did make for me when leaving rome ?
and that you did you for me ?
in times , you made a thing .
you know well .
keep me in the heart . will be more close to you of the one that never .
i never thanked you .
me ...
i never spoke .
i was never what should be .
but as it had to know ?
i only now know , because there are people less stupid than i. it lets to be the people .
is it true ?
what did go stupid ?
not .
he married with me for money .
i only want you to understand .
i always tried to impede you that you understood .
but all this ended .
did he hinder your arrival a lot ?
everything turned very complicated , but i don' t care .
here , with you ...
i am happy , as it was not there is a long time .
i want you to be happy .
that you feel close to you .
that you know that i love you .
because it has there to be pain ?
it is not what there is of deeper .
you have to be here .
the pain is deep , but it passes .
in fact , it is to pass now .
but the love lasts long .
i don' t know because we must suffer so much .
maybe come to discover .
i don' t have faith ...
i don' t have faith that a mistake as generous as this it can hurt you like this so much .
and it reminds you of this ...
if you were hated , you were also loved .
oh , isabel ...
adored .
the man , born of the woman , it is of few days and full of inquietude . it is born as the flower , and it withers . it also flees as the shadow and it doesn' t stay .
on that such one you open your eyes , and to me you do me to enter in judgement with you ?
who of the filthy will remove the pure ?
adore him .
adore him .
scared me .
it wanted to see her/ it the alone ones .
therefore i was to the wait , and to walk thereabout .
i don' t want to inconvenience her , as i did in rome . it didn' t serve as anything , it only disturbed her .
i knew that it was wrong .
but now i know that i am not .
now everything changed .
i can help her .
how can i help myself ?
it was good to have made me to come away with his/ her cousin . it was a good man .
a noble man .
spoke to me about his/ her case .
everything explained his/ her respect .
guessed my feelings .
it knows what he told me right here , of the last time that saw him/ it ? it said , it does for her everything that you can .
' everything that she to let to do you . ' it didn' t have anything to speak of me .
because no , if only falmos for well ?
he was to die .
it is too late to act .
touchett knew , and me also , the one that cost come him here . will have cost him/ her his/ her life . it is afraid of returning .
it is completely only .
now think about me .
in itself .
come to me .
because have of returning ?
because have of facing all that ?
to move away me of itself .
i want to impede that .
if at least it listened to me once .
because we must be happy ? because , when is it here before us ?
when is it so easy ? can do what to please us .
to who we do have us of rendering bills ?
beg him/ her that it leaves .
don' t say that .
don' t kill me .
end
