most likely they have died of cold and hunger far away there in the middle of the forest .
sergianne golon ; countess angelika
villealfa film productions present
a film by aki kaurismki
the match factory glrl
written , edited and directed by aki kaurlsmaki
the attack by the people' s army into tiananmen square has crushed the resistance of unarmed students and claimed hundreds dead .
a gas pipeline explosion on the trans siberian railway has wrecked two trains , killing almost 700 people .
iran' s religious leader ayatollah khomeini has died .
good evening .
the students ' demonstration in beijing has ended in a massacre .
heavily armed troops have evidently killed hundreds of students during last night and this morning .
armed with tanks and automatic weapons the troops stormed the square last night crushing the resistance of the unarmed students .
the tanks smashed their way through the barricades but , trapped , one tank got to feel the people' s wrath .
failing in opening it like a tin can it was set on fire .
more tanks appeared , followed by troops with fixed bayonets .
tents were burned down or crushed under the tanks .
this was the end .
somewhere beyond the ocean there is a land
where warm waves softly caress its ever happy sands
all kinds of wonderful flowers are forever in bloom
no cares , no worries there , no troubles , and no gloom
oh , if only i could reach that dreamland some day
then i' d never , ever fly from that paradise away
but no , unlike the birds i' m a prisoner of this earth
and only in my dreams alone i can see that blessed turf
hurry away now , my song , fly to that land of dreams
where my sweet darling faithfully waits for me
hurry away now , my song , like a speeding bird
tell my love that i am only thinking about her
oh , if only i could reach that dreamland some day
then i' d never , ever fly from that paradise away
but no , unlike the birds i' m a prisoner of this earth
and only in my dreams alone i can see that blessed turf
a small beer .
the pope , head of the roman catholic church and the vatican state on a yet another visit welcomed by an oppressive heat .
the pope has already visited some 80 countries .
after the scandinavian tour , the only west european countries missing from the list are monaco , malta and andorra .
his scandinavian tour has attracted a lot of attention .
an estimated 600 journalists are said to follow the visit .
china' s people' s army has tightened its hold on beijing .
tanks have been placed at vital traffic junctions and more tanks have rolled into tiananmen square .
today in central beijing , troops fired wildly at civilians .
according to chinese sources , also army units have clashed at least in two districts in beijing .
today , the lone man who stopped a tank column by defiantly standing in its way became a symbol of the resistance .
whore .
take it back .
a shower .
eight marks .
call me
498366
iris
eat .
thanks .
you could visit home some day .
is that man still there ?
and you support them .
in a way .
i pay rent .
forget it .
eat .
when my call comes , can i take it in the dressing room ?
sure .
congratulatios .
mother .
babe , your presence means the world to me
the other guys think you' re not what a girl should be
but though you may not be the ideal thing
you' ve got that something , babe
your smile makes it all worthwhile
so easily you can outshine the brightest stars
for me , your shining eyes turn each day into spring
you' ve got that something , babe
i' m always dreaming of your kiss
now that' s something i don' t want to miss
happiness just can' t go on ...
hi .
what is it ?
i thought i' d like to see you .
not today .
i' il pick you up tomorrow at eight .
give me the address .
44 , factory lane , the courtyard .
iris will be ready in a minute .
how is it ?
good .
now if you think we' ve got something lasting between us you' re sorely mistaken .
nothing could touch me less than your affection .
better run off now .
nothing to worry about .
the test was positive , you' re pregnant .
i' m pregnant .
really ?
dearest aarne
i know you don' t want to see me or hear from me .
but there' s something i must write to you about .
my pregnancy test was positive , so we are having a baby .
i' d prefer a girl , but if you want a boy , i' il want one , too .
for a girl , you can buy such pretty clothes and boys are always interested in rough games like ice hockey .
i don' t know how you' il take this but i do hope that you wouldn' t leave us all alone when the baby is born .
i hope that you' il come and see us in the hospital although it' s far too early yet , as it' s not due until march .
i think you have the right to be the first to know this .
you are , anyway , the father of our child .
even if you could never truly love me i think that the child will bring you much joy as it grows older as it will for me .
i' il bring this to you myself to prevent it getting into wrong hands .
promise to answer me when you' ve thought about it .
i believe it will all be for the better and we' il yet realise that destiny arranged this surprise for our best although it may first come to you as a shock .
regards , iris .
get rid of the brat .
you' ve brought your mother great pain .
we both hope you' il find yourself another home .
is that all ?
yes .
here' s the key .
i' il be back in the evening .
rat poison .
small or large ?
large .
what does this do ?
it kills .
good .
a drink .
ice .
i just came to say goodbye .
everything' s in order and we won' t meet again , ever .
you don' t have to worry about anything .
a large beer .
come to eat .
oh , how could you
turn all my sweet dreams into idle fancies
my eyes beheld the cold cruel land
my love' s flower died frost killed my faith
when you give everything only to find disappointment
the burden of memories gets too hard to bear
the flower of love won' t be shining now
your cold eyes and your chilly smile has put it out
when you give everything only to find disappointment
the burden of memories gets too hard to bear
the flower of love won' t be shining now
your cold eyes and your chilly smile has put it out
oh , how could you ?
