this one' s sick , don' t give him any !
her !
not her !
her !
abrala .
negro bernardo .
bernardo .
abajo !
todos abajo !
i wanted to kill them too .
for they convinced some of us that they would take us back home .
thank you , sir .
mr holabird .
quite a tale .
intrigue , abduction , courage in the face of unspeakable suffering .
and all true .
all right .
now tell me if this is true .
some tribes in africa , for hundreds of years thousands , perhaps have owned slaves .
translate .
yes .
under what circumstances might one become a slave among the mende , of which you claim to belong ?
translate .
wars , debts .
oh , i see .
and how many men are indebted to you ?
i don' t think you do see .
mr holabird is trying to intimidate my colleague .
the mende word for " slave " is closer to " worker " .
do these workers own the land they work on ?
do they receive wages ?
are these workers free to not work for you , if they so choose ?
he' s questioning the translator !
the translator is answering for the witness .
the witness isn' t getting a chance !
mr baldwin !
fine , mr baldwin !
slavery , indentured servitude .
whatever they want to call it , the concept is the same .
now , he is familiar with the concept .
when you come down to it , it' s all about money , isn' t it ?
slaves , production , money .
i mean , that' s the idea of it .
whether it' s here or there .
i' m confused .
do your people routinely slaughter their slaves in the manner that you just so vividly described to us ?
of course they don' t .
what would be the point of that ?
killing your own slaves is like burning down your own house or hut , isn' t it ?
how do you explain that paradox ?
i don' t understand what you mean .
sure you do .
as does everyone here .
the behaviour you attribute to your tormentors your victims and therefore every other aspect of your testimony , makes no sense .
not even to you .
but thank you .
like all good works of fiction , it was entertaining .
nothing more .
captain fitzgerald , please explain your duties in her majesty' s navy .
to patrol the ivory coast for slave ships .
because ?
because slavery is banned in british law , sir .
yet the abduction of men from the british protectorate of sierra leone and their illegal transportation as described by cinque ,
is not unheard of , is it ?
not even unusual , regrettably .
what , if anything , in his account of his ordeal , do you find believable ?
his description of the slave fortress , for one thing .
there is such a place .
you' ve seen it ?
no , sir .
we' ve not managed to locate it , but there is overwhelming evidence that it is real .
what evidence , exactly ?
rumour ?
reports .
by " reports " you mean of the variety cinque shared with us today ?
its existence , sir , has been reported .
cinque describes the cold blooded murder of many of the people on board the tecora .
mr holabird sees this as a paradox .
do you , sir ?
often when slavers are intercepted , or believe they may be , they simply throw all their prisoners overboard and thereby rid themselves of the evidence of their crime .
drown hundreds of people ?
yes .
it hardly seems a lucrative business to me , going to all that trouble rounding men up only to throw them overboard .
no , it' s very lucrative .
if only we could corroborate cinque' s story somehow with ... with evidence of some kind .
the inventory .
this ?
from the tecora ?
if you look , there' s a notation made on may 10 , correcting the number of slaves on board , reducing their number by 50 .
what does that mean ?
if you look at it in conjunction with cinque' s testimony ,
the crew greatly underestimated the amount of provisions required for their journey , and solved the problem by throwing 50 people overboard .
i' m looking at the inventory , captain , and i' m sorry , i don' t see where it says ,
this morning , we threw 50 slaves overboard .
on may 10 or any other day .
as of course you would not .
i do see that the cargo weight changed .
they reduced the poundage , i see , but that is all .
it' s simple , ghastly arithmetic .
well , for you , perhaps .
i may need a quill and parchment and a better imagination .
and what poundage do you imagine the entry may refer to , sir ?
a mast and sails , perhaps ?
give us ... us ... free .
give ... us ... free .
give us , us free .
give ... us ... free .
your honour , please instruct the defendant not to disrupt proceedings with such outbursts .
give us , us free !
if we are to have any semblance of order in court ...
give us , us free !
give us , us free !
he cannot keep crying out " give us free " ...
give us , us free ! .. while i am questioning this witness !
glve us , us free !
glve us , us free !
you don' t have to pretend to be interested in that .
nobody' s watching but me .
i' m not pretending .
i' m beginning to understand it .
their people have suffered more than ours .
their lives were full of suffering .
then he was born and everything changed .
who is he ?
i don' t know , but everywhere he goes he is followed by the sun .
here he is healing people with his hands .
protecting them ...
being given children ...
what' s this ?
he could also walk across the sea .
but then something happened .
he was captured .
accused of some crime .
here he is with his hands tied .
he must have done something .
why ?
what did we do ?
whatever it was , it was serious enough to kill him for it .
do you want to see how they killed him ?
this is just a story , yamba .
but look .
that' s not the end of it .
his people took his body down from this ... thing ... this ...
they took him into a cave .
they wrapped him in a cloth , like us .
they thought he was dead , but he appeared before his people again and spoke to them .
then , finally ... he rose into the sky .
this is where the soul goes when you die .
this is where we' re going when they kill us .
it doesn' t look so bad .
baukei ...
hold your head up .
all rise .
after careful review and thorough reflection ,
i find it impossible to deny the power of the government' s position .
there is no doubt in my mind that district attorney holabird ,
her catholic majesty , isabella of spain , and her trusted minister , senor calderon , have all proceeded with the utmost faith in the soundness of their case .
i also believe that senors ruiz and montes may have ... misrepresented the origin of the prisoners , an issue which weighs crucially upon their fate , and that of the spaniards as well .
were they born in africa ?
since the answer to that question shall govern every determination of this court , i ask it again .
were they born in africa ?
i believe they were .
as such , her catholic majesty' s claims of ownership have no merit .
neither do those for salvage made by lieutenants mead and gedney .
i hereby order the arrest and detention of senors ruiz and montes ..
.. by federal mar ...
by federal marshals ... on the charge of slave trading !
the release of the africans and their conveyance , by this government , at her earliest convenience and expense , back to their homes in africa !
yes !
we' ve done it , joadson !
we' ve done it !
yes !
covey , tell them !
tell them now !
look at ' em !
what' s most bewildering to her majesty is this arrogant independence of the american courts .
after all , if you cannot rule the courts , you cannot rule .
senor calderon , as any true american will tell you , its the independence of our courts that keeps us free .
john ... i' m glad you came .
mr president ?
senator calhoun is here .
john !
i was afraid you weren' t going to be able to join us .
you may put that fear to rest , sir .
oh , thank you !
please .
i' d like you to meet senor calderon , ambassador from spain .
buenas noches , senor ambassador .
thought you said he wasn' t coming .
he said he wasn' t .
you see , senor calderon , there' s a growing number of people in this part of the country that regard us in the south as not only geographically beneath them .
they ignore the fact that slavery is so interwoven into the fabric of this society , that to destroy it would be to destroy us as a people .
it' s immoral .
that' s all they know .
therefore , so are we .
immoral and inferior .
we are inferior in one area .
we' re not as proficient in the art of gain .
we' re not as wealthy as our northern neighbors .
we' re still struggling .
take away our life' s blood now ...
well , we all know what happens then .
north and south .
they become the masters , and we the slaves .
but not without a fight .
senator calhoun is being modest .
he' s not inferior in another area the art of exaggeration .
ask yourself , senor calderon ...
what court wants to be responsible for the spark that ignites the firestorm ?
what president wants to be in office ... when it comes crashing down around him ?
certainly no court before this one .
certainly no president before this one .
so ...
judge us not too harshly , sir , and bid her majesty like .
because the real determination our courts and our president must make is not whether this ragtag group of africans raised swords against their enemy , but rather ... must we ?
whoa !
come along , mr joadson .
this news ...
well , of course , it' s bad news , but ...
they may be more valuable to our struggle in death than in life .
martyrdom , mr joadson . >from the dawn of christianity , we have seen no stronger power for change .
you know it' s true .
what is true , mr tappan and believe me when i tell you , i' ve seen this is that there are men whose hatred of slavery is stronger than anything , except for the slave himself .
if you wish to inspire such hatred in a man , mr joadson , speak to him in that fashion and it may come true .
our president , our big , big man , has appealed the decision to our supreme court .
what does that mean ?
we have to try the case again .
now , i i know it' s hard to understand , cinque .
i don' t understand , for that matter .
you said there would be a judgment , and we would go free .
no , no .
what i said is that we won it at the state level .
i said if we won it at the state level , we then go on .
that' s what you said !
that' s what you said !
all right !
yes , i said it !
i said it , but i shouldn' t have .
what i should have said ...
i can' t translate that .
you can' t translate what ?
i can' t translate " should " .
there' s no mende word for " should " ?
no .
either you do something , or you don' t do it .
what i meant to say , what i meant ...
not in the way you mean it .
try and understand me .
meant " is the same as " should " .
you' re misunderstanding the language .
cinque !
listen to me .
understand what i' m saying .
what i said to you before the judgment is almost how it works here .
almost !
almost ?
yes , cinque .
but not always .
yes .
and that' s what' s happened here .
what kind of place is this ?
where you almost mean what you say ?
where laws almost work ?
how can you live like that ?
" to his excellency , john quincy adams ,
massachusetts member , house of representatives .
i have understood from mr joadson
that you are acquainted with the plight of the amistad africans .
if that is true , then you are aware that we have been ,
at every step , successful in our presentation of their case .
despite this ,
and despite the unlikelihood of president van buren' s re election ,
he has appealed our most recent favourable decision
to the highest court in the land .
as i' m sure you are well aware ,
seven of nine of these supreme court justices
are themselves southern slave owners .
sir , we need you .
if ever there was a time for a man to cast aside his daily trappings
and array himself for battle , that time has come .
thank you .
cicero said , appealing to claudius in defence of the republic ,
that ' the result of this war
depends on the life of one most brave and excellent man . '
in our time , in this instance , i believe it depends on two .
a courageous man , at present in irons , named cinque ,
and you , sir .
sincerely , roger s baldwin , attorney at law .
mr tippings , excuse me a moment , please .
any word from ... ?
what did cinque say ?
he won' t talk to you .
he won' t talk to me ?
no .
how' s your english coming ?
no better than my mende , i suppose .
cinque , i know this isn' t something you necessarily want to think about , but has it occurred to you that i' m all you' ve got ?
because , since my practice has now completely deteriorated , you' re all i' ve got .
see , this is me .
you see ?
you see ?
you see how this works ?
and and and this , this here , cinque , is for me .
hmm ?
more death threats .
some have been signed .
by my own clients , no less .
i should say , should say ... former clients , shouldn' t i ?
there is one more consequence to having no clientele to speak of .
i am now free to sit here as long as it takes for you to acknowledge me .
yes , you understood that word , didn' t you ?
free .
all right .
then we' il just sit .
caesar .
cicero' s appeal was to julius caesar , not claudius .
claudius would not be born for another hundred years .
you were right , there was one of them .
is that him ?
yes , mr president .
please unlock this door .
adams has flirted with abolitionists for 15 years , but has yet to take one home .
how old is he ?
too old to take anyone home !
he sleeps through three quarters of the sessions on the hill .
let' s see .
president , slumbering congressman , jailhouse lawyer one waits with great anticipation for what' s next !
what must that be like ?
what ?
knowing all your life , whatever your accomplishments , you' il only be remembered as the son of a great father .
the only thing john quincy adams will remembered for is his middle name !
i wonder , is there anything as pathetic as an ex president ?
i was talking about john ...
sir .
yes ?
cinque has asked me t t to ask you ... whether you have thought about the question of jurisdiction .
what ?
that since they took over the ship far out to sea , and since neither spain nor america owns the sea , how is it that the treaty applies ?
tell him the treaty recognises no jurisdictional limitations .
he will ask me why .
because i said so .
excuse me , sir .
yes ?
cinque would like to know that if he is the property of ruiz and montes , then how does the treaty apply , as it is between america and spain ?
or their citizens .
or their citizens " is included in the language , if he must know .
thank you , sir .
it' s a good point , though .
does britain have any treaties with west africa which may override
those between spain and america ?
no .
does britain have any treaties with america
which might override those ...
no .
does america have treaties with west africa ?
no !
does spain ?
no !
does the commonwealth of connecticut
have any treaties with west africa ?
no , no , no , no !
now stop this !
unshackle him .
i' m sorry , sir .
i' m under strict orders ...
unshackle him , please .
yes , mr president .
this is a phalaenopsis , moth orchid ,
i brought over from china .
and this is a primrose from an english garden .
and , uh , this spear lily , from the south of france .
this is my rose blush noisette .
this came all the way from , uh , washington , dc , but don' t tell anyone .
hmm .
go on , go on .
african violet .
i can' t tell you how difficult that was to come by .
now , you understand you' re going to the supreme court .
do you know why ?
it is the place where they finally kill us .
no .
well , yes , that may be true too .
that' s not what i meant .
no , there is another reason and a more important reason .
although i' il admit that , uh , perhaps more so to us than you .
all right , don' t ... cinque ...
do you know who i am ?
has anyone told you about me ?
what have they told you ?
that you are a chief .
i was a chief , yes .
a chief cannot become anything less than a chief , even in death .
oh , how i wish such were true here , cinque .
you' ve no idea .
one tries to govern wisely , strongly , but ...
one tries to govern in a way that betters the lives of one' s villagers .
one tries to ... kill the lion .
unfortunately , one isn' t always wise enough or strong enough .
time passes ... and the moment is gone .
now , listen , cinque .
listen .
we' re about ... we' re about to bring your case before the highest court in our land .
were about to do battle with a lion that is threatening to rip our country in two .
huh ?
and all we have on our side is a rock .
of course , you didn' t ask to be at the centre of this historic conflagration any more than i did , but we find ourselves here , nonetheless , by some mysterious mix of circumstances and the whole world watching .
so , uh , what are we to do ?
huh ?
is he going to help ?
he has far many more questions than answers .
what did he just say ?
i i ... sorry , i didn' t catch it .
cinque , look .
i' m being honest with you .
anything less would be disrespectful .
i' m telling you , i' m preparing you ,
i suppose i' m explaining to you , that the test ahead of us is an exceptionally difficult one .
we won' t be going in there alone .
alone ?
indeed not .
we have right at our side .
we have righteousness at our side .
we have mr baldwin over there .
i meant my ancestors .
i will call into the past , far back to the beginning of time , and beg them to come and help me at the judgment .
i will reach back and draw them into me .
and they must come , for at this moment , i am the whole reason they have existed at all .
your honours ...
i derive much consolation from the fact that my colleague , mr baldwin here , has argued the case in so able , and so complete a manner as to leave me scarcely anything to say .
however ...
why are we here ?
how is it that a simple , plain property issue should now find itself so ennobled as to be argued before the supreme court of the united states of america ?
do we fear the lower courts , which found for us , missed the truth ?
or is it , rather , our great and consuming fear of civil war , that has allowed us to heap symbolism upon a simple case that never asked for it ?
and now would have us disregard truth even as it stands before us , tall and proud as a mountain .
the truth ... in truth , has been driven from this case like a slave .
flogged from court to court , wretched and destitute .
and not by any great legal acumen on the part of the opposition , i might add .
but through the long , powerful arm of the executive office .
this is no mere property case , gentlemen .
this is the most important case ever to come before this court .
because what it in fact concerns is the very nature of man .
uh , these are , um ...
these are transcriptions of letters written between our secretary of state , john forsyth , and the queen of spain , isabella the second .
now , i ask that you accept their perusal as part of your deliberations .
thank you , sir .
i would not touch on them now except to notice a curious phrase which is much repeated .
the queen again and again refers to our incompetent courts .
now what , i wonder , would be more to her liking ?
huh ?
a court that finds against the africans ?
well , i think not .
and here is the fine point of it .
what her majesty wants is a court that behaves just like her courts .
the courts this 11 year old child plays with in her magical kingdom called spain .
a court that will do what it is told .
a court that can be toyed with like a doll .
a court , as it happens , of which our own president ,
martin van buren , would be most proud .
thank you .
this is a publication of the office of the president .
it' s called " the executive review " , and i' m sure you all read it .
at least i' m sure the president hopes you all read it .
this is a recent issue , and there' s , uh , an article in here , written by " a keen mind of the south " , who ...
my former vice president , john calhoun , perhaps .
could it be ?
who asserts that " there has never existed a civilized society
in which one segment did not thrive upon the labour of another .
as far back as one chooses to look ,
to ancient times , to biblical times ,
history bears this out .
in eden , where only two were created .
even there , one was pronounced subordinate to the other .
slavery has always been with us ,
and is neither sinful nor immoral .
rather , as war and antagonism are the natural states of man ,
so , too , slavery , as natural as it is inevitable .
well , gentlemen , i differ with the keen minds of the south , and with our president , who apparently shares their views , offering that the natural state of mankind is instead and i know this is a controversial idea is freedom .
is freedom .
the proof is the length to which a man , woman or child will go to regain it , once taken .
he will break loose his chains .
he will ... decimate his enemies .
he will try and try and try , against all odds , against all prejudices , to get home .
cinque , would you stand up , if you would , so everyone can see you .
this man is black .
we can all see that .
but can we also see as easily that which is equally true ?
that he is the only true hero in this room .
if he were white , he wouldn' t be in this court , fighting for his life .
if he were white and his enslavers british , he' d be weighed down by the medals and honours we would bestow upon him .
songs would be written about him .
the great authors of our times would fill books about him .
his story would be told and retold , in our classrooms .
our children , because we would make sure of it , would know his name as well as they know patrick henry' s .
yet , if the south is right , what are we to do with that embarrassing , annoying document ,
the declaration of independence " ?
what of its conceits ?
all men created equal , " " inalienable rights , " " life , liberty , " and so on .
what on earth are we to do with this ?
i have a modest suggestion .
the other night i was talking with my friend cinque .
he was over at my place , and we were out in the greenhouse together .
he explained to me how when a member of the mende that' s his people ...
how when a member of the mende encounters a situation where there appears no hope at all , he invokes his ancestors .
tradition .
the mende believe that if one can summon the spirit of one' s ancestors , then they have never left .
and the wisdom and strength they fathered and inspired will come to his aid .
james madison , alexander hamilton ,
benjamin franklin ,
thomas jefferson ,
george washington ,
john adams .
we have long resisted asking your for guidance .
perhaps we have feared in doing so , we might acknowledge that our individuality , which we so , so revere , is not entirely our own .
perhaps were feared an ... an appeal to you might be taken for weakness .
but we have come to understand , finally , that this is not so .
we understand now ...
we' ve been made to understand , and to embrace the understanding that who we are is who we were .
we desperately need your strength and wisdom to triumph over our fears , our prejudices , ourselves .
give us the courage to do what is right .
and if it means civil war , then let it come .
and when it does , may it be , finally , the last battle of the american revolution .
that' s all i have to say .
in the case of the united states of america versus the amistad africans , it is the opinion of this court that our treaty of 1795 with spain , on which the prosecution has primarily based its arguments , is inapplicable .
while it is clearly stipulated in article 9 that and i quote
seized ships and cargo
are to be returned entirely to their proprietary .
the end of quote .
it has not been shown to the court' s satisfaction that these particular africans fit that description .
we are then left with the alternative that they are not slaves , and therefore cannot be considered merchandise , but are , rather , free individuals with certain legal and moral rights , including the right to engage in insurrection against those who would deny them their freedom .
and therefore , over one dissent , it is the court' s judgment that the defendants are to be released from custody at once , and , if they so choose , to be returned to their homes in africa .
thank you .
well ...
what did you say to them ?
huh ?
what words did you use to persuade them ?
yours .
to keep you safe .
thank you ... baldwin .
fire !
all clear , sir .
fire .
fire !
fire .
fire !
fire .
fire .
fire .
take a letter , ensign .
to his honour , the united states secretary of state , mr john forsyth .
my dear mr forsyth ,
it is my great pleasure to inform you that you are , in fact , correct .
the slave fortress in sierra leone does not exist .
que bonita !
