por favore !
that one wants us to sail them back .
that one thinks he can sail all the way back without us .
si .
east .
to the sun !
i understand .
you can trust me .
to africa !
well , i have to tack , don' t i ?
you' d rather i didn' t ?
you want to get there ?
i have to tack !
you' re going to get us killed !
yeah , yeah , yeah , now go take a bath .
este .
we have to signal them .
when the ship gets close , he' il run and hide .
then we both start yelling .
they' il search the ship .
get ready .
shh .
dolly !
dolly !
lay up , mr packwood !
aye , aye , sir !
straight ahead !
fire over their heads !
open the gate !
come on , come on , come on !
move along , now !
move along !
forward !
move along !
keep it going !
get along !
get moving !
don' t stop there !
keep moving !
make way for the stinking heathens !
all right , move on .
lock ' em up !
gates !
gates !
gates !
push ' em in !
your royal highness .
something' s happened .
mr president !
the ambassador to spain , senor caldero .
what ?
senor calderon .
yes , all right .
not now .
it is a matter of importance , sir .
god bless you all !
i' m trying to drink my brandy after a very long day .
i simply wasn' t certain whether this was something you wanted to take care of personally .
leder , there are what , four million negroes in this country ?
why on earth should i concern myself with these forty four ?
hmm ?
well , there are reasons .
i don' t care how .
you just take care of it .
the ship is amistad .
it' s too small to be a transatlantic slaver .
they' re plantation slaves , then ?
west indians ?
not necessarily .
at least they certainly don' t look it .
not from the glimpse i caught of them on their way to jail .
they have these ... scars .
scars ?
yeah .
they were first detained by officers of a brig off long island .
they were conveyed to new haven under what authority , i don' t know and given over to the local constabulary .
about forty of them , including four or five children .
the arraignment is day after tomorrow .
i can only assume that the charge is murder .
i' il see what i can do about that .
perhaps a writ for illegal arrest and detainment to stall things .
at the very least , make sure they have good counsel .
chief !
chief !
he' s not a chief !
brother !
brother !
he' s not your brother .
what is he then ?
he' s a white man .
hear ye !
in the matter of the court of the united states of america in the year of our lord , 1839 , the honourable andrew t judson presiding .
if it please , your honour .
the bench recognises district attorney holabird .
i would like to present the court , your honour , with the charges of piracy and murder ...
i have a petition for a writ of habeas corpus .
i was speaking .
mr holabird , your charges , whatever they might be , will be rendered moot .
that petition , mr tappan if that' s what it is is moot , until an actual writ by some higher court , by some miracle , is granted .
mr holabird is correct .
and if you would , sir , please kindly refrain from impersonating a lawyer , which you patently are not .
as i was saying , your honour ...
your honour .
mr secretary .
your honour , i am here on behalf of the president of the united states , representing the claims of queen isabella of spain , as concerns our mutual treaty on the high seas of 1795 .
you have my attention .
thank you .
these slaves , your honour , are the property of spain , and as such , under article 9 of said treaty , are to be returned posthaste .
said treaty taking precedence over all other claims ...
them slaves belong to me and my mate , your majesty .
your honour , i ...
who be you two gentlemen ?
we , thomas r gedney and richard w meade ,
whilst commissioned us naval officers ,
stand before this court as private citizens ,
and do hereby claim salvage on the high seas
of the spanish ship la amistad and all her cargo .
here you go , sir .
your honour ...
you wish to make this claim above that of the queen of spain ?
where was she , pray , when we was fightin ' the winds , your excellen ... uh , honour .
her majesty , the queen of spain , was busy ruling a country .
your honour , these officers claims are just ...
your honour !
here are the true owners of these slaves .
order !
on their behalf ...
i am in possession of a receipt for purchase executed in havana , cuba , june 26 , 1839 ,
i do hereby call upon this court to immediately surrender ...
.. these goods !
and that ship out there to my clients ,
jose ruiz ...
yo soy ruiz .
yoso " ruiz , and ... pedro montes ?
pedro montes .
ah , mr tappan .
how do you do , sir ?
my name is roger s baldwin , attorney at law .
real estate ?
real estate , inventories and other assets .
can i help you with something ?
what is it that you do ?
well , i own various business ... and banks .
as a matter of fact , you probably could help me , mr tappan .
but that' s not why i' m here .
i' d like to help you .
me ?
yes .
i deal with property .
sometimes i get people' s property back , other times i get it taken away , as in this case .
every one of the claims speaks to the issue of ownership .
thank you , mr ... mr baldwin .
baldwin , roger s , attorney at law .
but i' m afraid what' s needed here is a criminal attorney .
a trial lawyer .
but thanks for your interest .
yes .
well ... intending no disrespect , mr tappan , but if that were the way to go , well , then ...
well , i wouldn' t have bothered coming down here .
goodbye .
i bid you gentlemen a good afternoon .
in closing , ...
i call upon our distinguished colleague from massachusetts ,
representative john quincy adams to reweigh his unmeet and unprecedented attempt to convert this eccentric bequest of let' s be frank a bunch of junk of one james smithson , into a so called institute of national treasure !
perhaps mr adams is meditating on his response .
had i thought your remarks worthy of riposte , representative pinckney , be assured you' d have heard from me ... hours ago !
who ?
mr tappan .
lewis tappan .
yeah ?
i must see him ?
i' m required to see him ?
no , sir .
he requests an audience .
give me your hand .
oh , he requests , does he ?
yeah .
i don' t know anyone called tappan .
sir , you do .
you' ve met him often .
where ?
where is he ?
he' s right over there , sir .
oh .
what is that ?
where ?
right there , sir .
lewis !
good to see you again !
and you , sir .
this is theodore joadson .
how do you do , sir ?
an honour to meet you , sir .
yeah .
sir ?
is there somewhere ...
let' s stroll in the garden ...
yes .
what ?
let go of my arm .
over here .
this case has great significance .
our secretary of state is paying it his attention .
you don' t have to shout !
he supports the queen' s claim that she owns the africans .
two sailors are making claims .
what season is it ?
pardon ?
i said , what season is it ?
i don' t understand what you mean .
there are two ways of knowing without consulting a calendar .
the leaves on the maple trees have all gone , and the fact that the president is not at home on pennsylvania avenue .
tell me , sir ...
do you really think van buren cares about the whims of an 11 year old girl who wears a tiara ?
i assure you , only one thing occupies his thoughts this time of the year , being all things to all people , which means nothing to no one .
in other words , gettin ' himself re elected .
give me a hand .
huh ?
will you help us , sir ?
let go of my arm .
take my stick .
mr adams ?
yeah , what ?
as an advocate for the abolition of slavery , will you help us ?
i' m neither friend nor foe to the abolitionist cause .
i won' t help you .
sir ...
what ?
i know you , mr president .
i know you and your presidency as well as any man , and your father' s .
you were a child at his side when he helped invent america .
you , in turn , have devoted your life to refining that noble invention .
there remains but one task undone .
one vital task the founding fathers left to their sons , before their 13 colonies could precisely be called united states .
and that task , sir , as you well know , is crushing slavery .
your record confirms you' re an abolitionist , sir , even if you won' t .
and whether or not you admit it ...
mr joadson . .. you belong with us .
you' re quite the scholar , mr joadson , aren' t ya ?
quite the historian .
let me tell you about that quality , if i might .
without an accompanying mastery of at least one tenth its measure of grace , such erudition is worthless , sir .
now , you take it from one who knows .
if you gentlemen will excuse me .
we know we aimed high asking you ...
well , aim lower !
find yourselves someone whose inspiration blossoms the more you lose .
if the court awards them to spain , they' il be taken to cuba and executed .
if the two lieutenants prevail , they' il likely to sell them to spain , and they' il be executed .
if montes and ruiz are successful ...
i' m a little confused .
what are they worth to you ?
we' re discussing the case , not its expense .
of course .
well , the case is much simpler than you think , mr tappan .
it' s like anything land , livestock , heirlooms , what have you .
livestock .
yes .
consider the only way one may sell or purchase slaves is if they are born slaves , as on the plantation .
i' m right , aren' t i ?
yes .
so , are they ?
" are they ?
yes .
born slaves , as on a plantation .
we' re not certain , but we very much doubt it .
let' s say they are .
then they are possessions , and no more deserving of a criminal trial than a bookcase .
on the other hand , let' s say they aren' t slaves , in which case they were illegally acquired .
forget mutiny , forget piracy , forget murder .
those are irrelevant occurrences .
ignore everything but the pre eminent issue at hand .
the wrongful transfer of stolen goods .
either way , we win .
sir , this war must be waged on the battlefield of righteousness .
the what ?
it would be against everything i stand for to let this deteriorate into an exercise in legal minutia .
mr tappan , i' m talking about the heart of the matter .
as am i.
it is our destiny , as abolitionists and as christians , to save these people .
these are people , mr baldwin , not livestock .
did christ hire a lawyer to get him off on technicalities ?
he went to the cross , nobly .
you know why ?
to make a statement .
to make a statement , as must we .
but christ lost .
you , i think ...
no , sir , he did not .
you want to win , don' t you ?
yes .
i certainly do .
hell , sometimes i don' t get paid unless i do .
which brings us back to the question of worth .
in order to do a better job than the son of god' s attorney
i' il require two and a half dollars a day .
who are they , do you think ?
looks like they' re going to be sick .
# amazing grace
# how sweet the sound ... # they' re entertainers ! # that saved a wretch like me ... # but why do they look so miserable ?
# i once was lost
# but now am found ... #
you don' t belong here .
your table doesn' t belong here .
this is temne land .
how do you do , sir ?
how do you do ?
you want to sit ?
sit here in mendeland .
what are you doing , temne ?
you want trouble ?
cross into our territory again .
what is this ?
get this table out of here !
let me show you to sherbroland .
there ?
i' m sorry .
i don' t understand .
excuse me .
i ...
my name is roger baldwin .
this is theodore joadson of the anti slavery society and owner of the forten shipping service .
and this is professor gibbs , a linguist .
what do you want ?
keep talking .
get them to talk .
have you seen this before ?
i could kill you with my bare hands before you raise that sword .
this belongs to you ?
no .
umm ...
i need to know where you' re from .
uh ...
what did he say ?
i didn' t understand a word .
it' s gibberish .
he said , i think , " show me the map .
do you think he' s here to help us ?
i don' t know .
he reminds me of that fula of baoma .
the one who hires himself out to scrape elephant dung from the crops .
a dung scraper might be just the kind of man we need right now .
here , africa ...
is this where you' re from ?
a fri ca .
what does he want ?
he' s an idiot .
were you born in the west indies ?
were you born in the west indies ?
all three of them are idiots .
what did he say ?
oh , he said , er ...
they have to go away .
emancipation !
it' s god' s way !
you cannot own another human being !
killers of white men !
slavery is tyranny !
it' s those miserable looking people again .
god' s blessing on you this morning .
i' m not afraid of you , or your medicine !
yes .
you place your hand on this book and i' il pray for you .
they' re human beings , not animals !
slavery will kill this country !
.. in the quietude of the night after the spaniards attended their vespers and were in virtuous sleep , the savages broke loose their collars , and stole onto the deck like creatures of prey .
they fell upon the unsuspecting crew with these sabres and cane knives ...
i cannot overstate ... have you figured out who he is ?
an advisor of some kind .
perhaps theirs . .. they mutilated at least one ...
what about him ?
the simple cook , a creole ...
their own kind .
theirs maybe .
but for senors ruiz and montes , who steered the amistad to these shores under constant threat of like fate , we might never have heard of this massacre , this bloodbath .
but for their bravery , these villains would have escaped justice .
but they' ve not .
they' ve not .
and dung scraper ?
i have a horrible feeling he talks for us .
do you know the difference between a cow and a cabbage ?
a brick and a bear ?
or how about ... a polecat and a president ?
the spanish government hopes you don' t have much more sense than that .
this case isn' t about murder , mayhem or massacres .
it' s not about anything that dramatic .
this case is about knowing the difference between here and there .
i want to show you something .
open your mouth .
he doesn' t understand .
he doesn' t speak english .
abra su boca .
doesn' t he understand ?
i thought he was born on a cuban plantation ?
perhaps he simply doesn' t like you .
he wouldn' t be the first , mr holabird .
yes .
what , did he learn this on some cuban plantation , this decorative effect ?
cuban plantation !
stand up .
stand up !
hey .
levantate .
levantate .
levantate .
stand up .
ahh !
thank you .
your honour , i speak more spanish , and i was born in philadelphia .
on spanish plantations , slaves choose to live surrounded by their own ways and simple languages .
pray tell , what need they know of spanish ?
fetch ?
carry ?
stop ?
gestures suffice for slaves , as for any other beast of burden .
your honour ...
i represent the interests of senors ruiz and montes .
i remember .
i have a bill of sale , issued in havana for the purchase of slaves .
i remember that too .
on it , in addition to the amounts paid for each , are their names .
jose , bernardo ...
paco and so on .
on behalf of my clients , i submit this document to the court .
mr baldwin , you' ve proffered a good deal of i' il be kind circumstantial evidence .
have you , in addition , anything , in the order of actual documentation , that might refute this one , and so more compellingly support your claims ?
i' m sure i could manufacture some as easily as they have , your honour .
what you' re saying is , then , you don' t .
is that correct ?
i have them .
i' m afraid that does not impress me .
i thought you did quite well .
you do ?
much better than i expected , to be honest .
well , thank you , i think .
although , i was concerned that you might have forgotten
this is just a case like any other .
you needn' t worry about that .
that' s good .
hello , cinque .
my name is roger baldwin .
i' il be your attorney .
yes .
thank you .
all right .
i need to prove where you' re from .
you want to show them where we' re from .
how are you supposed to tell me ?
how can i explain to you where we' re from ?
you go .
i' m sorry , you talk first .
here .
this is where i' m from .
here .
this .
all of this .
all of this is ...
is ... my home .
that' s here .
here .
cuba .
cuba' s an island .
the amistad .
this is where ... where you ... where everyone ... was killed .
here .
cuba , the amistad .
now , cuba ... is this your home ?
i don' t think so .
but ... excuse me .
now ...
africa .
this is your home , isn' t it ?
this ... is ... your home .
yes ?
you came ... all the way ... from ... here .
this ... is how far i' ve come .
secure the ballast , transport !
put your backs into it , boys .
this is a court order granting us permission to search this vessel .
what did they want ?
to come aboard .
i informed them they needed to obtain one of these ... an authentic one .
aren' t you coming ?
heave ho !
my light !
light ... ?
light the lamp , mr baldwin .
i' m trying .
mr joadson !
here .
are you all right ?
yes .
these papers and i shall ask you to examine them are portions of a ship' s manifest i retrieved from the amistad yesterday .
at first glance , they may appear to bolster the prosecution' s case .
you see , they list cargo .
cargo bearing the very spanish names messrs ruiz and montes insist represent my clients , hand scrawled in the margins .
but no , this is not the manifest of the amistad at all .
look .
this is part of the cargo manifest of a portuguese vessel , the notorious transatlantic slave ship the tecora .
the tecora .
i can bring you as many witnesses as you wish , mr holabird ...
tecora !
their clients trade primarily off the coast of west africa .
the ivory coast , sierra leone .
i know what you' re thinking .
sierra leone is a protectorate of the british crown .
slavery is outlawed there .
its principal port , in fact , has been re christened " freetown " .
how , then , can the portuguese tecora ... engage in the slave trades in these waters ?
i' il tell you how .
in a word ...
illegally .
whatever these men say clearly matters not because this proves them liars .
my clients ' journey did not begin in havana , as they keep claiming more and more emphatically .
no , my clients ' journey ...
began much , much further away .
i underestimated you , sir !
i really did !
i should take that as a compliment .
oh , you should indeed , sir .
i can' t imagine there' s no not reaching a favourable conclusion ...
hey !
hey !
a am i bleeding ?
there' s nothing there .
what did i do to deserve this ?
you took the case , mr baldwin .
you took the case , sir .
i should take that as a compliment .
as you may perceive ,
i wish you to act promptly
before this matter becomes a weight on our two countries .
uh , " great countries .
our great countries .
after all , the business of great countries is to do business .
excelente , su alteza .
slavery is our pillar of commerce in the new world .
without it , our goodwill and excellent trade relations sh ...
uh , " should be imperilled .
" should be imperilled .
without it , we might have been denied the glory
of aiding you in your rebellion against the british .
as slave owning nations , we must together stand firm .
speak the words of humaneness for the masses of your citizens ,
but hold tightly to the power that protects them .
that power , of course , is their wealth .
the africans must never go free .
with sincerest admiration ,
isabella the second , queen of all of spain .
i am not about to bend to the will of some pubescent queen .
forget about them .
they' re unimportant .
prepubescent .
you need to concern yourself with what this matter means here , not an ocean away .
someone would tell me what it means !
leder , you yourself said it was meaningless .
well , not any more .
john calhoun paid me a visit .
oh , god .
to explain to me why this case is of much greater import ...
much greater symbolism , to use his word to the south than the north .
if the africans are executed , the abolitionists will make good use of it .
and yes , they will make some converts .
if , on the other hand , they are freed ,
calhoun says the southern states will so ally themselves against you that you can forget about re election .
over this ?
it' s worse than that .
worse ?
what could be worse than that ?
calhoun believes , and i am not sure i can disagree with him , that this could take us all one long step closer to civil war .
this ?
yes , mr president .
but all is not lost .
the jury appears likely to free them , but juries can be dismissed .
they can ?
but i believe we must go further and remove the judge .
we can do that ?
he could be prevailed upon to recuse himself for various reasons .
with that in mind ,
i' ve taken the liberty of exploring possible replacements .
i' ve found one i strongly believe to be better .
he' s young , which means he has a career before him rather than behind , he has yet to feel the hankering for magnanimous last gestures for the sake of posterity .
and he is monumentally insecure , particularly about his catholic heritage .
he' s catholic ?
his grandfather was catholic , which young mr coglin has striven all his days to keep quiet .
mr president , judge coglin .
judge coglin , we are so pleased to meet you .
thank you so much for coming .
i' ve been reading in the papers the continuing saga of the , uh , amistad .
real papers .
real papers .
yes , sir .
yes .
bad luck , this last unfolding chapter .
what to do now , eh ?
which is why i came here and imposed on you , sir .
no imposition ... really .
yeah .
how did that , uh ...
how did that young lawyer take the news ?
oh , in stride , sir .
in stride .
the thing is , sir , he did everything right .
he proved the case .
did he ?
oh , yes , sir .
surprisingly , he did .
hmm .
good .
well , he' il just have to do it again , then .
but like most things , it should be easier second time around .
well , i' m afraid it doesn' t matter what he does now , sir .
rumour has it our next judge was hand picked by van buren himself .
no !
i' m embarrassed to admit that i was under the misconception that our executive and judicial branches were separate .
no more so than these , mr joadson .
no more so than these .
so now you know .
yes .
sir ?
yeah ?
mr president , if it was you handling the case ...
well , it isn' t me .
and thank god for that .
but if it was , sir , huh ?
what would you do ?
well , when i was an attorney , a long time ago , young man ,
i , er , i realised after much trial and error , that in a courtroom , whoever tells the best story wins .
in unlawyer like fashion , i give you that scrap of wisdom free of charge .
i' m much obliged for your time , sir .
what is their story , by the way ?
sir ?
what is their story ?
why , they' re , um , ... from west africa .
no .
what is their story ?
mr joadson , you' re from where originally ?
why , georgia , sir .
georgia .
yes , sir .
does that sum up what you are ?
a georgian ?
is that your story ?
no .
you' re an ex slave , who' s devoted his life to the abolition of slavery , and overcoming great hardships along the way , i should imagine .
that' s your story , isn' t it ?
you and this young so called lawyer have proven you know what they are .
they' re africans .
congratulations .
what you don' t know , and haven' t bothered in the least to discover , is who they are .
right ?
seven .
eight .
number nine ... and ten .
now , how about you , mr baldwin ?
would you like to count from one to ten ?
one to ten in mende .
one .
ta .
two .
fele .
three .
sawa .
four .
nanee .
right .
five .
lorlu .
fresh fruit !
straight from the caribbean !
sawa , nanee , lorlu ...
what' s happened here ?
one of them died last night .
we tried to take the body away to bury it .
what do they want ?
they want to live with it ?
they want to bury him .
they have to bury him according to their poro beliefs .
otherwise , his soul will haunt them .
# the house of thine abode
# with his own precious son ... #
# the house of thine abode
# the church of blessed redeemers ... #
if i were you , if i ran this place ,
i' d set protocol aside just this once and let them bury him .
# i love thy kingdom , lord ... #
i was thinking the same thing .
my name is kai nyagua ... and james covey .
i speak mende and english , his language .
you and he will talk to each other through me .
the clothes ?
and the names .
i was rescued off a slave ship by the british navy .
i never went back .
a problem has arisen .
the judge we had , who believed , i believe , that you should be freed , has been dismissed .
a new judge has been called upon to hear the case , this time without a jury .
how is that possible ?
a chief cannot be replaced .
i can' t explain it in any way that you would understand , cinque .
or me , for that matter .
only that , well , it has happened .
i am not a great orator or advisor , cinque .
i' m not a big man in my profession .
i don' t know if i alone can convince this next judge to set you free .
i need your help .
when we go to court , i need you to speak .
i' m not an advisor of any kind .
i cannot speak for the others .
cinque , the others , they say you can .
they say you' re the big man here .
i am not .
what' s this i hear about a lion ?
they say you alone alone , cinque slew the most terrifying beast anyone has ever seen .
is it not true ?
it had killed several people .
even hunters among us .
everyone including me was afraid .
i was lying down with my family , when out of nowhere it appeared .
as it came for me
i picked up this big rock and i threw it .
and by some miracle , you see , i hit it .
he don' t know how that killed it , but it did .
a rock .
a rock .
i received the gratitude of everyone in the village .
i was given respect .
they treated me as if i was a prince .
they gave me the fine country cloth .
all these things they gave me , i took them all .
but i knew i didn' t deserve it .
for when i threw that rock at that beast ... if i had missed him ...
he said he wouldn' t be here trying to explain these things .
he' d just be dead .
understand ?
understand ?
i' m not a big man .
just a lucky one .
i might agree with you , cinque , except you' re forgetting something .
the other lion .
the amistad , cinque .
the insurrection .
that too was an accident ?
i hardly think so .
that wasn' t bravery .
any man would do the same to get back to his family .
you yourself would do it .
someone said that might be yours .
' my wife gave it to me . '
' to keep me safe . '
cinque ...
i need you to tell me how you got here .
i' il hit you in the head again if you talk .
i' il share the profit of my harvest .
i' il ...
this one' s sick , don' t give him any !
her !
not her !
her !
abrala .
negro bernardo .
bernardo .
abajo !
todos abajo !
i wanted to kill them too .
for they convinced some of us that they would take us back home .
thank you , sir .
mr holabird .
quite a tale .
intrigue , abduction , courage in the face of unspeakable suffering .
and all true .
all right .
now tell me if this is true .
some tribes in africa , for hundreds of years thousands , perhaps have owned slaves .
translate .
yes .
under what circumstances might one become a slave among the mende , of which you claim to belong ?
translate .
wars , debts .
oh , i see .
and how many men are indebted to you ?
i don' t think you do see .
mr holabird is trying to intimidate my colleague .
the mende word for " slave " is closer to " worker " .
do these workers own the land they work on ?
do they receive wages ?
are these workers free to not work for you , if they so choose ?
he' s questioning the translator !
the translator is answering for the witness .
the witness isn' t getting a chance !
mr baldwin !
fine , mr baldwin !
slavery , indentured servitude .
whatever they want to call it , the concept is the same .
now , he is familiar with the concept .
when you come down to it , it' s all about money , isn' t it ?
slaves , production , money .
i mean , that' s the idea of it .
whether it' s here or there .
i' m confused .
do your people routinely slaughter their slaves in the manner that you just so vividly described to us ?
of course they don' t .
what would be the point of that ?
killing your own slaves is like burning down your own house or hut , isn' t it ?
how do you explain that paradox ?
i don' t understand what you mean .
sure you do .
as does everyone here .
the behaviour you attribute to your tormentors your victims and therefore every other aspect of your testimony , makes no sense .
not even to you .
but thank you .
like all good works of fiction , it was entertaining .
nothing more .
captain fitzgerald , please explain your duties in her majesty' s navy .
to patrol the ivory coast for slave ships .
because ?
because slavery is banned in british law , sir .
yet the abduction of men from the british protectorate of sierra leone and their illegal transportation as described by cinque ,
is not unheard of , is it ?
not even unusual , regrettably .
what , if anything , in his account of his ordeal , do you find believable ?
his description of the slave fortress , for one thing .
there is such a place .
you' ve seen it ?
no , sir .
we' ve not managed to locate it , but there is overwhelming evidence that it is real .
what evidence , exactly ?
rumour ?
reports .
by " reports " you mean of the variety cinque shared with us today ?
its existence , sir , has been reported .
cinque describes the cold blooded murder of many of the people on board the tecora .
mr holabird sees this as a paradox .
do you , sir ?
often when slavers are intercepted , or believe they may be , they simply throw all their prisoners overboard and thereby rid themselves of the evidence of their crime .
drown hundreds of people ?
yes .
it hardly seems a lucrative business to me , going to all that trouble rounding men up only to throw them overboard .
no , it' s very lucrative .
if only we could corroborate cinque' s story somehow with ... with evidence of some kind .
the inventory .
this ?
from the tecora ?
if you look , there' s a notation made on may 10 , correcting the number of slaves on board , reducing their number by 50 .
what does that mean ?
if you look at it in conjunction with cinque' s testimony ,
the crew greatly underestimated the amount of provisions required for their journey , and solved the problem by throwing 50 people overboard .
i' m looking at the inventory , captain , and i' m sorry , i don' t see where it says ,
this morning , we threw 50 slaves overboard .
on may 10 or any other day .
as of course you would not .
i do see that the cargo weight changed .
they reduced the poundage , i see , but that is all .
it' s simple , ghastly arithmetic .
well , for you , perhaps .
i may need a quill and parchment and a better imagination .
and what poundage do you imagine the entry may refer to , sir ?
a mast and sails , perhaps ?
give us ... us ... free .
give ... us ... free .
give us , us free .
give ... us ... free .
your honour , please instruct the defendant not to disrupt proceedings with such outbursts .
give us , us free !
if we are to have any semblance of order in court ...
give us , us free !
give us , us free !
he cannot keep crying out " give us free " ...
give us , us free ! .. while i am questioning this witness !
glve us , us free !
glve us , us free !
you don' t have to pretend to be interested in that .
nobody' s watching but me .
i' m not pretending .
i' m beginning to understand it .
their people have suffered more than ours .
their lives were full of suffering .
then he was born and everything changed .
who is he ?
i don' t know , but everywhere he goes he is followed by the sun .
here he is healing people with his hands .
protecting them ...
being given children ...
what' s this ?
he could also walk across the sea .
but then something happened .
he was captured .
accused of some crime .
here he is with his hands tied .
he must have done something .
why ?
what did we do ?
whatever it was , it was serious enough to kill him for it .
do you want to see how they killed him ?
this is just a story , yamba .
but look .
that' s not the end of it .
his people took his body down from this ... thing ... this ...
they took him into a cave .
they wrapped him in a cloth , like us .
they thought he was dead , but he appeared before his people again and spoke to them .
then , finally ... he rose into the sky .
this is where the soul goes when you die .
this is where we' re going when they kill us .
it doesn' t look so bad .
baukei ...
hold your head up .
all rise .
after careful review and thorough reflection ,
i find it impossible to deny the power of the government' s position .
there is no doubt in my mind that district attorney holabird ,
her catholic majesty , isabella of spain , and her trusted minister , senor calderon , have all proceeded with the utmost faith in the soundness of their case .
i also believe that senors ruiz and montes may have ... misrepresented the origin of the prisoners , an issue which weighs crucially upon their fate , and that of the spaniards as well .
were they born in africa ?
since the answer to that question shall govern every determination of this court , i ask it again .
were they born in africa ?
i believe they were .
as such , her catholic majesty' s claims of ownership have no merit .
neither do those for salvage made by lieutenants mead and gedney .
i hereby order the arrest and detention of senors ruiz and montes ..
.. by federal mar ...
by federal marshals ... on the charge of slave trading !
the release of the africans and their conveyance , by this government , at her earliest convenience and expense , back to their homes in africa !
yes !
we' ve done it , joadson !
we' ve done it !
yes !
covey , tell them !
tell them now !
look at ' em !
what' s most bewildering to her majesty is this arrogant independence of the american courts .
after all , if you cannot rule the courts , you cannot rule .
senor calderon , as any true american will tell you , its the independence of our courts that keeps us free .
john ... i' m glad you came .
mr president ?
senator calhoun is here .
john !
i was afraid you weren' t going to be able to join us .
you may put that fear to rest , sir .
oh , thank you !
please .
i' d like you to meet senor calderon , ambassador from spain .
buenas noches , senor ambassador .
thought you said he wasn' t coming .
he said he wasn' t .
you see , senor calderon , there' s a growing number of people in this part of the country that regard us in the south as not only geographically beneath them .
they ignore the fact that slavery is so interwoven into the fabric of this society , that to destroy it would be to destroy us as a people .
it' s immoral .
that' s all they know .
therefore , so are we .
immoral and inferior .
we are inferior in one area .
we' re not as proficient in the art of gain .
we' re not as wealthy as our northern neighbors .
we' re still struggling .
take away our life' s blood now ...
well , we all know what happens then .
north and south .
they become the masters , and we the slaves .
but not without a fight .
senator calhoun is being modest .
he' s not inferior in another area the art of exaggeration .
ask yourself , senor calderon ...
what court wants to be responsible for the spark that ignites the firestorm ?
what president wants to be in office ... when it comes crashing down around him ?
certainly no court before this one .
certainly no president before this one .
so ...
judge us not too harshly , sir , and bid her majesty like .
because the real determination our courts and our president must make is not whether this ragtag group of africans raised swords against their enemy , but rather ... must we ?
whoa !
come along , mr joadson .
this news ...
well , of course , it' s bad news , but ...
they may be more valuable to our struggle in death than in life .
martyrdom , mr joadson .
from the dawn of christianity , we have seen no stronger power for change .
you know it' s true .
what is true , mr tappan and believe me when i tell you , i' ve seen this is that there are men whose hatred of slavery is stronger than anything , except for the slave himself .
if you wish to inspire such hatred in a man , mr joadson , speak to him in that fashion and it may come true .
our president , our big , big man , has appealed the decision to our supreme court .
what does that mean ?
we have to try the case again .
now , i i know it' s hard to understand , cinque .
i don' t understand , for that matter .
you said there would be a judgment , and we would go free .
no , no .
what i said is that we won it at the state level .
i said if we won it at the state level , we then go on .
that' s what you said !
that' s what you said !
all right !
yes , i said it !
i said it , but i shouldn' t have .
what i should have said ...
i can' t translate that .
you can' t translate what ?
i can' t translate " should " .
there' s no mende word for " should " ?
no .
either you do something , or you don' t do it .
what i meant to say , what i meant ...
not in the way you mean it .
try and understand me .
meant " is the same as " should " .
you' re misunderstanding the language .
cinque !
listen to me .
understand what i' m saying .
what i said to you before the judgment is almost how it works here .
almost !
almost ?
yes , cinque .
but not always .
yes .
and that' s what' s happened here .
what kind of place is this ?
where you almost mean what you say ?
where laws almost work ?
how can you live like that ?
" to his excellency , john quincy adams ,
massachusetts member , house of representatives .
i have understood from mr joadson
that you are acquainted with the plight of the amistad africans .
if that is true , then you are aware that we have been ,
at every step , successful in our presentation of their case .
despite this ,
and despite the unlikelihood of president van buren' s re election ,
he has appealed our most recent favourable decision
to the highest court in the land .
as i' m sure you are well aware ,
seven of nine of these supreme court justices
are themselves southern slave owners .
sir , we need you .
if ever there was a time for a man to cast aside his daily trappings
and array himself for battle , that time has come .
thank you .
cicero said , appealing to claudius in defence of the republic ,
that ' the result of this war
depends on the life of one most brave and excellent man . '
in our time , in this instance , i believe it depends on two .
a courageous man , at present in irons , named cinque ,
and you , sir .
sincerely , roger s baldwin , attorney at law .
mr tippings , excuse me a moment , please .
any word from ... ?
what did cinque say ?
he won' t talk to you .
he won' t talk to me ?
no .
how' s your english coming ?
no better than my mende , i suppose .
cinque , i know this isn' t something you necessarily want to think about , but has it occurred to you that i' m all you' ve got ?
because , since my practice has now completely deteriorated , you' re all i' ve got .
see , this is me .
you see ?
you see ?
you see how this works ?
and and and this , this here , cinque , is for me .
hmm ?
more death threats .
some have been signed .
by my own clients , no less .
i should say , should say ... former clients , shouldn' t i ?
there is one more consequence to having no clientele to speak of .
i am now free to sit here as long as it takes for you to acknowledge me .
yes , you understood that word , didn' t you ?
free .
all right .
then we' il just sit .
caesar .
cicero' s appeal was to julius caesar , not claudius .
claudius would not be born for another hundred years .
you were right , there was one of them .
is that him ?
yes , mr president .
please unlock this door .
adams has flirted with abolitionists for 15 years , but has yet to take one home .
how old is he ?
too old to take anyone home !
he sleeps through three quarters of the sessions on the hill .
let' s see .
president , slumbering congressman , jailhouse lawyer one waits with great anticipation for what' s next !
what must that be like ?
what ?
knowing all your life , whatever your accomplishments , you' il only be remembered as the son of a great father .
the only thing john quincy adams will remembered for is his middle name !
i wonder , is there anything as pathetic as an ex president ?
i was talking about john ...
sir .
yes ?
cinque has asked me t t to ask you ... whether you have thought about the question of jurisdiction .
what ?
that since they took over the ship far out to sea , and since neither spain nor america owns the sea , how is it that the treaty applies ?
tell him the treaty recognises no jurisdictional limitations .
he will ask me why .
because i said so .
excuse me , sir .
yes ?
cinque would like to know that if he is the property of ruiz and montes , then how does the treaty apply , as it is between america and spain ?
or their citizens .
or their citizens " is included in the language , if he must know .
thank you , sir .
it' s a good point , though .
does britain have any treaties with west africa which may override
those between spain and america ?
no .
does britain have any treaties with america
which might override those ...
no .
does america have treaties with west africa ?
no !
does spain ?
no !
does the commonwealth of connecticut
have any treaties with west africa ?
no , no , no , no !
now stop this !
unshackle him .
i' m sorry , sir .
i' m under strict orders ...
unshackle him , please .
yes , mr president .
this is a phalaenopsis , moth orchid ,
i brought over from china .
and this is a primrose from an english garden .
and , uh , this spear lily , from the south of france .
this is my rose blush noisette .
this came all the way from , uh , washington , dc , but don' t tell anyone .
hmm .
go on , go on .
african violet .
i can' t tell you how difficult that was to come by .
now , you understand you' re going to the supreme court .
do you know why ?
it is the place where they finally kill us .
no .
well , yes , that may be true too .
that' s not what i meant .
no , there is another reason and a more important reason .
although i' il admit that , uh , perhaps more so to us than you .
all right , don' t ... cinque ...
do you know who i am ?
has anyone told you about me ?
what have they told you ?
that you are a chief .
i was a chief , yes .
a chief cannot become anything less than a chief , even in death .
oh , how i wish such were true here , cinque .
you' ve no idea .
one tries to govern wisely , strongly , but ...
one tries to govern in a way that betters the lives of one' s villagers .
one tries to ... kill the lion .
unfortunately , one isn' t always wise enough or strong enough .
time passes ... and the moment is gone .
now , listen , cinque .
listen .
we' re about ... we' re about to bring your case before the highest court in our land .
were about to do battle with a lion that is threatening to rip our country in two .
huh ?
and all we have on our side is a rock .
of course , you didn' t ask to be at the centre of this historic conflagration any more than i did , but we find ourselves here , nonetheless , by some mysterious mix of circumstances and the whole world watching .
so , uh , what are we to do ?
huh ?
is he going to help ?
he has far many more questions than answers .
what did he just say ?
i i ... sorry , i didn' t catch it .
cinque , look .
i' m being honest with you .
anything less would be disrespectful .
i' m telling you , i' m preparing you ,
i suppose i' m explaining to you , that the test ahead of us is an exceptionally difficult one .
we won' t be going in there alone .
alone ?
indeed not .
we have right at our side .
we have righteousness at our side .
we have mr baldwin over there .
i meant my ancestors .
i will call into the past , far back to the beginning of time , and beg them to come and help me at the judgment .
i will reach back and draw them into me .
and they must come , for at this moment , i am the whole reason they have existed at all .
your honours ...
i derive much consolation from the fact that my colleague , mr baldwin here , has argued the case in so able , and so complete a manner as to leave me scarcely anything to say .
however ...
why are we here ?
how is it that a simple , plain property issue should now find itself so ennobled as to be argued before the supreme court of the united states of america ?
do we fear the lower courts , which found for us , missed the truth ?
or is it , rather , our great and consuming fear of civil war , that has allowed us to heap symbolism upon a simple case that never asked for it ?
and now would have us disregard truth even as it stands before us , tall and proud as a mountain .
the truth ... in truth , has been driven from this case like a slave .
flogged from court to court , wretched and destitute .
and not by any great legal acumen on the part of the opposition , i might add .
but through the long , powerful arm of the executive office .
this is no mere property case , gentlemen .
this is the most important case ever to come before this court .
because what it in fact concerns is the very nature of man .
uh , these are , um ...
these are transcriptions of letters written between our secretary of state , john forsyth , and the queen of spain , isabella the second .
now , i ask that you accept their perusal as part of your deliberations .
thank you , sir .
i would not touch on them now except to notice a curious phrase which is much repeated .
the queen again and again refers to our incompetent courts .
now what , i wonder , would be more to her liking ?
huh ?
a court that finds against the africans ?
well , i think not .
and here is the fine point of it .
what her majesty wants is a court that behaves just like her courts .
the courts this 11 year old child plays with in her magical kingdom called spain .
a court that will do what it is told .
a court that can be toyed with like a doll .
a court , as it happens , of which our own president ,
martin van buren , would be most proud .
thank you .
this is a publication of the office of the president .
it' s called " the executive review " , and i' m sure you all read it .
at least i' m sure the president hopes you all read it .
this is a recent issue , and there' s , uh , an article in here , written by " a keen mind of the south " , who ...
my former vice president , john calhoun , perhaps .
could it be ?
who asserts that " there has never existed a civilized society
in which one segment did not thrive upon the labour of another .
as far back as one chooses to look ,
to ancient times , to biblical times ,
history bears this out .
in eden , where only two were created .
even there , one was pronounced subordinate to the other .
slavery has always been with us ,
and is neither sinful nor immoral .
rather , as war and antagonism are the natural states of man ,
so , too , slavery , as natural as it is inevitable .
well , gentlemen , i differ with the keen minds of the south , and with our president , who apparently shares their views , offering that the natural state of mankind is instead and i know this is a controversial idea is freedom .
is freedom .
the proof is the length to which a man , woman or child will go to regain it , once taken .
he will break loose his chains .
he will ... decimate his enemies .
he will try and try and try , against all odds , against all prejudices , to get home .
cinque , would you stand up , if you would , so everyone can see you .
this man is black .
we can all see that .
but can we also see as easily that which is equally true ?
that he is the only true hero in this room .
if he were white , he wouldn' t be in this court , fighting for his life .
if he were white and his enslavers british , he' d be weighed down by the medals and honours we would bestow upon him .
songs would be written about him .
the great authors of our times would fill books about him .
his story would be told and retold , in our classrooms .
our children , because we would make sure of it , would know his name as well as they know patrick henry' s .
yet , if the south is right , what are we to do with that embarrassing , annoying document ,
the declaration of independence " ?
what of its conceits ?
all men created equal , " " inalienable rights , " " life , liberty , " and so on .
what on earth are we to do with this ?
i have a modest suggestion .
the other night i was talking with my friend cinque .
he was over at my place , and we were out in the greenhouse together .
he explained to me how when a member of the mende that' s his people ...
how when a member of the mende encounters a situation where there appears no hope at all , he invokes his ancestors .
tradition .
the mende believe that if one can summon the spirit of one' s ancestors , then they have never left .
and the wisdom and strength they fathered and inspired will come to his aid .
james madison , alexander hamilton ,
benjamin franklin ,
thomas jefferson ,
george washington ,
john adams .
we have long resisted asking your for guidance .
perhaps we have feared in doing so , we might acknowledge that our individuality , which we so , so revere , is not entirely our own .
perhaps were feared an ... an appeal to you might be taken for weakness .
but we have come to understand , finally , that this is not so .
we understand now ...
we' ve been made to understand , and to embrace the understanding that who we are is who we were .
we desperately need your strength and wisdom to triumph over our fears , our prejudices , ourselves .
give us the courage to do what is right .
and if it means civil war , then let it come .
and when it does , may it be , finally , the last battle of the american revolution .
that' s all i have to say .
in the case of the united states of america versus the amistad africans , it is the opinion of this court that our treaty of 1795 with spain , on which the prosecution has primarily based its arguments , is inapplicable .
while it is clearly stipulated in article 9 that and i quote
seized ships and cargo
are to be returned entirely to their proprietary .
the end of quote .
it has not been shown to the court' s satisfaction that these particular africans fit that description .
we are then left with the alternative that they are not slaves , and therefore cannot be considered merchandise , but are , rather , free individuals with certain legal and moral rights , including the right to engage in insurrection against those who would deny them their freedom .
and therefore , over one dissent , it is the court' s judgment that the defendants are to be released from custody at once , and , if they so choose , to be returned to their homes in africa .
thank you .
well ...
what did you say to them ?
huh ?
what words did you use to persuade them ?
yours .
to keep you safe .
thank you ... baldwin .
fire !
all clear , sir .
fire .
fire !
fire .
fire !
fire .
fire .
fire .
take a letter , ensign .
to his honour , the united states secretary of state , mr john forsyth .
my dear mr forsyth ,
it is my great pleasure to inform you that you are , in fact , correct .
the slave fortress in sierra leone does not exist .
que bonita !
