what the ... ?
who' s that ?
you' re bad
who grabbed me ?
who grabbed me ?
who grabbed me ?
honey , you' re gonna be late
what' d you grab me for ?
mom , i can' t find my shoes for school
they' re under the couch
dad , will you sign my permission slip for tomorrow ?
give it to your mother
your mother' s arms are full
you got time for pancakes ?
nope
give us another one , dad
secretary of defense ?
dean rusk
wrong
and you get to wax my car
rusk is state , moron it' s robert mcnamara
attorney general ?
too easy !
it' s bobby kennedy
all right , wise guys .
assistant secretary of state for latin america
that' s too hard
wait a minute
this isn' t a permission slip
this is your report card !
have you seen these grades ?
no
all right .
gotta go
be good
you ...
and i' m talking to you later
morning , evelyn
hi , ken
those candies are for the kids
morning , floyd
morning , mr. o' donnell
morning , jackie
hi , kenny
want a schedule ?
no
why' d you cross all my people off the list ?
you don' t have anybody on it who means anything
no votes there , there' s not money
it' s party , kenny
and the one thing that we both can be sure of is that you don' t know how to have a party
well , party to you , politics to me
so , who do you want ?
for real
everyone on my list
i don' t want to spend an entire evening pretending that your votes and money are more interesting than they really are
and i want my kids to stop eating the candy in the oval office
that' s not me
then who is it ?
i don' t rat on my friends
i' m going to take this whole list thing up with your " friend
are you trying to go around me ?
go around you , over you , through you
whatever it takes
you' re starting to bug me
good
i' il get back to you
top of the morning , mr. president
morning , kenny
just ran into your wife
wanna talk about this party ?
no
you see homer capehart' s tirade today ?
i did
don' t see why he needs to invent an issue
he' s got his election sewn up
even so we should still go out for bayh
it' s good groundwork for us in ' 64
i' m looking for that ...
vietnam thing
the two planes that went down ?
yeah
it didn' t make it before press time
i haven' t taken a look at the west coast papers yet but i doubt we' il see anything ' til tomorrow
i was eating that
no , you weren' t
i was
no , you weren' t
i was , you bastard so what have we got today ?
today ...
that' s it
that' s the one we' re looking for
i nee dot see the president , kenny 2 : 30 to 2 : 45 or 4 : 30 to 5 : 00 .
take your pick
i need to see him now , ken
then go on up i' il let him know you' re coming
coffee ?
yeah
that' s not what you said
that' s not what ...
listen to me you worthless piece of shit
you will put daly' s man on the circuit and you' il do it today
you owe your gaddamn job to this administration
are you saying i' m not grateful ?
yeah , i can hear how grateful you are
there' s a word you need to learn
it' s the only word in politics
it' s called loyalty
loyalty
now , is there any part of this you don' t understand ?
good
what ?
this isn' t the blessed order of st. mary the meek
you better come in here
what was it you were saying to me the other day about cuba ?
that it wasn' t important
not as far as the election goes
mac !
can i see that for a second , please ?
here , kenny .
you used to look down a bombsight for a living
just ignore the labels what does that look like to you ?
i don' t know
what is it ?
our u 2' s took these pictures of soviet medium range ballistic missiles in cuba
they appear to be the ss 4 range of a thousand miles three megaton nuclear warheads
seen here in this year' s may day parade in red square
jesus christ in heaven
white house operator
mr. o' donnell , please for secretary mcnamara
white house operator
what the crap is going on today ?
that' s right
the principals are assembling in an hour
see you then
where' s bobby ?
he should be here any minute
oh , good
good
where the hell are you ?
we' re in here
jesus christ , guys
what the hell is kruschev thinking ?
did you have any indication of this from your kgb pal , bolshakov ?
any possible warning or sense of motivation ?
complete snowjob
then we went out and told the country they weren' t putting missiles into cuba
jesus
i feel like we caught the jap carrier steaming for pearl harbor
morning , gentlemen
morning , mr. president
mr. secretary
mr. president
bob .
bet you had a late night
sleep is for the week , mr. president
mr. president
cla' s been notified
mccone' s on his way back from the west coast
he' s been burying his step son
general carter' s here , though
ted
kenny
okay
let' s have it
arthur ?
gentlemen , as most of you now know a u 2 over cuba
sunday morning took a series of disturbing photographs
our analysis at nplc indicates that the soviet union has followed up its conventional weapons build up in cuba with the introduction of surface to surface medium range ballistic missiles , or mrbm' s
our official estimate at this time is that this missiles system is the ss 4 sandal
we do not believe that the missiles are as yet operational
ironbark reports that the ss 4 can deliver a 3 megaton nuclear weapon 1 , 000 miles
so far we' ve identified 32 missiles serviced by about 3 , 400 men undoubtedly all soviet personnel
our cities and military installations in the southeast as far north as washington , d. c. are in range of these weapons and in the event of a launch would have only five minutes of warning
five minutes , gentlemen
in those five minutes they could kill 80 million americans and destroy a significant percentage of our bomber bases
the joint chiefs ' consensus mr. president is that this signals a major doctrinal shift in soviet thinking to a first strike policy
it is a massively destabilizing move
how long until they' re operational ?
general taylor can answer that question better than i can
gmalc guided missiles intelligence committee estimates ten to fourteen days
a crash program could limit that time
however , i must stress that there may be more missiles that we don' t know about
we need more u 2 coverage
gentlemen , i want first reactions here
assuming for the moment that krushev has not gone off the deep end and intends to start world war three
what are we looking for ?
mr. president , my team is in agreement
if we permit the introduction of nuclear missiles to a soviet satellite nation in our hemisphere the diplomatic consequences will be too terrible to contemplate
the russians are trying to show the world they can do whatever they want wherever they want and we' re powerless to stop them
if they succeed
it' il be munich all over again
yes .
appeasement only makes the aggressor more aggressive
and the soviets will be emboldened to push us even harder
no , we must remove the missiles one way or another
it seems to me the options are either some combination of international pressure and action on our part till they give up or ... we hit them
an air strike
bob ?
we' ve worked up several military scenarios
before i ask general taylor to take us through the various options
i' d like for us to adopt a rule
if we strike we must agree to do it before the missiles become operational
because once they are
i don' t think we can guarantee getting them all before at least some of them are launched
it' s clear we cannot permit soviet nuclear missiles in cuba
we have to get those missiles out
i don' t think it' s going to matter what kruschev' s intentions are
right now
i don' t see any way around hitting them
if we kill a lot of russians they' il move against berlin
if they attack berlin , that' s nato and we' re at war
we' re damned if we do , but if we don' t we' re in a war for sure somewhere else in six months
if there are alternatives that make sense and i' m not saying that there are then we need ' em , and fast
what about congress ?
we may need to start letting key people know
and they' re all scattered across the country for the campaign
we can get congress back
we' re gonna need to get the u. n. staff in and warmed up
what about the allies ?
we can' t start worrying about everything
right now we gotta figure out what we' re gonna do before we worry about how we' re gonna do it
well , we' ve got a bunch of smart guys
we lock ' em in a room and kick ' em in the ass until they come up with some solutions
i' il do it
it' s too politicized with you in there anyway
they need to be able to stick their necks out
yeah .
it' il be the principals a couple of they key guys from each department
the executive committee of the national security council
we' il can it excom
okay
so i' m only gonna show for the meetings that you call me into
impress us
did it fast
kenny , you' re in charge of keeping this thing quiet
if word gets out before we know what we' re gonna do there' s gonna be panic
and it' s gonna ruin any chance we might have of surprise if we decide to hit them
we' re gonna need to do a few things right away
no pierre
he knows , the press knows
and you' re gonna have to keep up your schedule
your movements are followed too closely
george ball' s got a conference room at state
good
you meet over there this afternoon
we' il figure out a way to sneak you guys back in here tonight
i think we should bring in dean acheson
ken he was fighting soviets while we were still playing ball together at school
find him , kenny
we' re gonna need all the help we can get
screw secrecy
try having that fat ass , sit on your lap all the way from foggy bottom
you were excited .
i say no more
everybody agrees the diplomatic route won' t work
it' s too slow and they' il finish the missiles while we' re still talking
i hear old warren harding used to get his grills in through here
we have 850 planes assembling at homestead
eglin , opa locka , macdill partick , pensacola , and key west
due to the tropical foliage the oplan calls for high explosive and napalm loadouts for our ground attack sorties
i still think there are diplomatic approaches we haven' t considered yet
peace at any price ?
we have a gun to our head
we have high confidence in the expanded air strike option , mr. president
the problem , sir is that it' s a short term solution
kruschev can send in more missiles next month
the chiefs and i believe we should follow up the air strikes with the full version of oplan 316
an invasion ?
yes , sir
we can be sure we get all the missiles and we remove castro so this can never happen again
is this the joint chief' s recommendation ?
yes , sir
our best option as bob pointed out this morning would be to commence the strikes before the missiles become operational
the invasion happens eight days later
dean
what do you think ?
gentlemen for the last fifteen years i have fought here at this table alongside your predecessors in a struggle against the soviet
i do not wish to seem melodramatic but i do wish to impress upon you a lesson i learned with bitter tears and great sacrifice
the soviet understands only one language action
respects only one word
force
i concur with general taylor
i recommend air strikes followed by invasion perhaps proceeded by an ultimatum to dismantle the missiles
if that is militarily viable
so it appears we have three options
number one , a surgical air strike against the missiles themselves
two , a much larger air strike against their air defenses along with the missiles .
and three invasion
so we' re certainly gonna do number one we' re gonna take these missiles out
it seems to me we can' t wait very long
we should at leat be making those preparations
we' re preparing to implement all three options
though i must stress again , sir there are risks to the strikes without the follow on invasion
you want to be clear , mr. president that we' ve definitely decided against a political track
dean
how does this all play out ?
your first step , sir will be to demand that the soviet withdraw the missiles within 12 to 24 hours
the will refuse
when they do you will order the strikes followed by the invasion
they will resist and be overrun
they will retaliate against another target somewhere else in the world most likely berlin
we will honor our treaty commitments and resist them there defeating them per our plans
those plans call for the use of nuclear weapons
so ... what is the next step ?
hopeful cooler heads will prevail before we reach the next step
thank you , gentlemen
what happened in there ?
i thought he was going to give us his decision
look , i know them .
they just need to ... make sure there' s no other way they' il get there
the kennedys ' father was one of the architects of munich
there' s only one responsible choice here
so let' s hope appeasement doesn' t run in families
i fear weakness does
jesus christ
call me irish , but i don' t believe in cooler heads prevailing
you know , they think i froze in there
you didn' t freeze
you did exactly what you should have done you stayed out of the corner
you didn' t decide
acheson' s scenario is just ... unacceptable
and he' s got more experience than anyone
there' s no expert on the subject
there' s no wise old man
shit , there' s just us
acheson' s right
talk alone is not gonna accomplish anything
well , let' s bomb the shit out of them
everybody wants to
even you
even me
right ?
it sure would feel good
jack
i' m as conniving as they come but a sneak attack is just wrong
things are happening too fast
this is starting to smell like the bay of pigs all over again
tonight listening to taylor and acheson
i kept seeing lemnitzer and dulles telling me all i had to do was sign on the dotted line
and that the invasion would succeed and castro ... and castro would be gone
easy , just like that
there' s something ... immoral about abandoning your own judgment
we just can' t let this get out of hand
and we' il do whatever we have to do to make this come out right
i' m gonna stay here tomorrow
you can' t
we talked about this .
your schedule ?
best thing you can do tomorrow is go to connecticut
he' s right
yeah
jesus
doesn' t anybody in connecticut have to work today ?
we love you , jfk
the shole spectrum of air strikes is the minumum response the joint chiefs will accept
no , no , no
there is more than one option here
and if one isn' t occurring to us it' s because we haven' t thought hard enough
bobby , sometimes there is only one right choice and you thank god when it' s so clear
you' re talking about a sneak attack
how would that make us look ?
a big country blasting a little one into the stone age
we' il be everyone' s favorites
come on , bobby .
that' s naive
you know that better than anybody
and you weren' t so ethically particular when we were talking about options for moving castro at cla
bob
if we go ahead with these air strikes you know what it' il come to in the end
there has got to be something else
give it to me
i don' t care how crazy , inadequate or stupid it sounds
give it to me
six months ago we gamed out a scenario
it' s slow it doesn' t get rid of the missiles
it' s got a lot of drawbacks
the scenario calls for a blockade of cuba
the situation is worse than we thought
we now count 40 missiles 40 missiles
longer range irbm' s
they can hit every place in the country , except seattle
mr. president you give me the order right now my planes will be ready to strike in 3 days time
just say " go " and my boys will get those red bastards
general , how long until the army' s ready ?
we' ve just begun the mobilization under cover of a pre arranged exercise , sir
we' re looking at another week and a half
but you can order the strikes now
the plans call for an eight day air campaign
it' il light a fire under the army' s ass to get in place
general lemay , do you truly believe that' s our best course of action ?
mr. president
i believe it is the only course of action
america is in danger
those missiles are a threat to our bomber bases and the safety of our nuclear deterrent
without our deterrent there' s nothing to keep the enemy from choosing general nuclear war
it' s out duty
our responsibility to the american people to take out those missiles and return stability to the strategic situation
the big red dog is digging in our back yard and we are justified in shooting him
sir we have a rapidly closing window of opportunity where we can to prevent those missiles from becoming operational
the other options do not guarantee the end result that we can guarantee
however , as more time goes by the less reliable the choice we can offer you becomes
mr. president the motto i chose for sac is " peace is our profession
god forbid we find ourselves in a nuclear exchange
but launched missiles from cuba would kill a lot of americans
the very presence of those missiles gives the soviets first strike capability
those missiles make a nuclear exchange more likely
and that is why i' m being such a pain in the ass abut destroying them and destroying them immediately
hell , even mac agrees
and sir given your own statements about cuba
i think a blockade or a bunch of political talk would be considered by a lot of our friends and neutrals as a pretty weak response
and i suspect many of our own citizens feel the same way
you' re in a pretty bad fix mr. president
what did you say ?
you' re in a pretty bad fix
maybe you hadn' t noticed you' re in it with me
general what are the soviets gonna do when we attack ?
nothing
nothing ?
nothing
because the only alternative open to them is one they can' t choose
you know , they' re ... they' re not just missiles we' re gonna be destroying , general
if we kill soviet soldiers they' re gonna respond
how would we respond if they killed ours ?
they' re gonna do something , general
i can promise you that
those goddamn kennedys are gonna destroy this country if we don' t do something about this
we' re headed out to the back yard to look for that big red dog
thanks , bob
i was hoping lemay pushed you
' cause i was ready to knock that son of a bitch across the room
we knew it was coming and i' il tell you one thing , kenny
those brass hats have one big advantage
that is that if we do what they want us to do none of us will be left alive to tell them they were wrong
mr. president we need to go over what you' re going to say
gromyko should be on his way by now
there' s still no sign they know that we know about the missiles
we' re gonna keep it that way
kenny
be right there
i' m getting funny questions from the guys
yeah ?
what sort of questions ?
about some sort of " military exercises " ?
you want me to do my job handling the press
i need to know what' s going on
military exercises ?
yeah .
military exercises
haven' t heard anything about it
ask bundy
i did .
he said to ask you
mr. gromyko !
this way , please !
robert
hugh , how are you ?
excuse me , joan
so , tell me about this military exercise going on in puerto rico
what ?
it' s called ...
ortsac , i believe
castro spelled backwards
ortsac ?
i don' t know what you' re talking about
me either
why ?
because maybe the president and gromyko are gonna talk about it
you' re trying to drum something up johnny .
forget it
this meeting' s been on the books for months
far as i know , it' s just a friendly talk on u. s soviet relations
mr. president !
will you make a statement , sir ?
alright , hold it , fellas
you' il get your pictures
does it ?
i' il be damned
kind of simple for the pentagon
mr. gromyko
hold on one minute
gentlemen would you mind shaking hands ?
so that there should be no misunderstanding the position of the united states which has been made clear by the attorney general to ambassador dobrynin here
i shall read a sentence from my statement to the press dated september 13th
should missiles or offensive weapon be placed in cuba
it would present the gravest threat to u. s. national security
mr. president as premier kruschev' s own statement of september 13th assured you our military assistance to cuba is of a defensive nature only
so i did not misunderstand you ?
there are no offensive weapons in cuba
premier kruschev' s statement of september 13th remains the position of the soviet government
to that i have nothing to add
well , that' s good enough for me
thanks so much
thank you
gentlemen if you' il come with me , please
a most instructive meeting
what happened ?
lying bastard
lied right to my face
we' re split down the middle
if i held a vote , i think air strike would beat blockade by a vote or two
i want a consensus either air strike or blockade
something everyone' s gonna stand by even if they don' t like it
and i need it by saturday
so make it happen
what if i can' t ?
we go into this split the russians will know it
and they' il use it against us
have you cancelled chicago and the rest of the weekend yet ?
you don' t show for chicago , everyone will know there' s something going on
i don' t care .
just cancel it
forget it
i' m not calling and canceling on daley
you call and cancel on daley
you' re scared to cancel on daley
you' re damn right , i' m scared
well , i' m not
watch this
welcome to chicago , mr. president
mr. mayor , i wouldn' t miss this event for the world
let' s go
tonight you' re going to experience true midwest cunning
what' s going on ?
now the guys are hounding me about some sort of troop movements in florida
what are you telling them ?
the truth .
i don' t know
am i out of the loop on something ?
no
tell ' em you' ve looked into it and all it is an exercise
and pierre , tomorrow the president may have a cold
a what ?
a cold
do i get any input around here ?
yeah
how bad it is , is up to you
there are major rail disruptions in the south two airbome divisions are on alert
sounds to me like that exercise is an invasion
you know how bobby has it in for the state of mississippi
we' re invading cuba
dammit , we are not invading cuba !
are you crazy ?
nobody gives a rat' s ass about cuba !
not now , not ever !
if you print that , all you' re gonna do is inflame the situation
and nobody talks to assholes who inflame situations
assholes like that can find themselves cut out of the loop
that' s the first time you' ve ever threatened me
all right
i won' t print anything until i have another source
but i promise you i' il get one
bobby ?
we' ve got a consensus for a blockade but it won' t last past tomorrow
you have to bring him back
by the way
china invaded india today
you' re kidding , aren' t you ?
i wish i were
galbraith' s handling it in new delhi
makes you wonder what' s coming next
what is it about the free world that pisses the rest of the world off ?
i don' t know we have tupperware parties ?
maybe
i' il see you tomorrow
okay
the president has a cold
he' s canceling the remainder of this trip and returning to washington on the advice of his doctor
is that the final word ?
president kennedy !
how do you feel , mr. president ?
mr. president , our deliberations have led us to the conclusion that a blockade of offensive weapons to cuba is our best option
a strong showing of support from the organization of american states would give us an umbrella of legitimacy
a blockade is technically an act of war
therefore we recommend calling the action a quarantine
let' s hope that translates into russian the way we want it to
there are between 20 ... and 30 soviet ships underway to cuba at this time 800 miles out the navy will stop them board and any vessels containing weapons will be turned back
a quarantine prevents any more missiles from reaching cuba but it doesn' t remove the missiles already there
it gives the soviets a chance to pull back without a war
if they refuse to remove the missiles we retain the option to strike and invade
a sneak attack is counter to what the united states stands for
it leaves us no room for maneuver
and the inevitable soviet response would force us into a war
mr. president there are still those of us who believe we should proceed with the strikes
with the blockade we lose strategic surprise and we also run the risk of the soviets launching the first strike against us if they decide they have to use the missiles or lose them
so quarantine ... or air strike
there is a third option
with either course we undertake the risk of nuclear war
so maybe one of us in this room should be a coward
so i guess i' il be
a third course is to strike a deal
we trade guantanamo and our missiles in turkey get them to pull their missiles out
we employ a back channel
we attribute the idea to u. n. thant
u thant then raises it at the u. n.
i don' t think that' s possible , adlai
i' ve not yet made my final decision
i' il be asking the networks for airtime on monday night
we' il announce our course of action then
ted , get to work on speeches for both quarantine and air strike
thank you for all your advice gentlemen
did you hear adlai ?
you' d think nobody learned anything from world war two
somebody had to say it
i respect adlai for having the guts to risk looking like an appeaser
we have to pull him
he won' t be able to handle the soviets in front of the u. n.
zorin will eat him alive
we' ve got bigger problems right now
ladies ?
no , thank you
honey , i' il be right back
adlai
just can' t seem to get away from you guys
escaping from a night on the town ?
as d. c. ' s most popular playboy the president felt my presence would be sorely missed , so ... in the interest of national security here i am
yes .
gotta keep up appearances
of course , i don' t any more
i' m a political dead man
did you ever see anyone cut his own throat like i did today ?
no
it' s alright
by the way
i spoke to a friend
reston and frankel have the story
the times is going to run it tomorrow
we' re not gonna make it to monday
shit
i' il get sorenson to try to lean on reston
but you' re gonna have to call orville dryfoos
this is the sort of decision a publisher makes himself
alright
thanks , kenny
yes sir , i understand
but we held on the bay of pigs and it was the biggest mistake of my life
what makes this different ?
orville , i' m asking you to hold the story until i can present our course of action on monday night
alright
but i' m gonna need a reason to give my boys
they' re gonna be screaming for my head on a plate
orville , you tell them this
that they' il be saving lives including their own
yes , mr. president
how many congressmen have not responded yet ?
fourteen
boggs is in the gulf fishing ?
i thought he was supposed to be campaigning
he' s not gone for long , sir
jesus .
get a plane out there and get him back
he wants to talk to lemay again
he' s still considering air strikes
none of this works tomorrow
figure out how to cancel it
yes , sir
we' re on the phones
cam , can you guarantee me you' il get all the missiles ?
sir , i guarantee we' il get all the missiles we know about
mr. president we can get better than 90 percent of them
i' il brief the congressional leadership tomorrow evening at five
at seven o' clock , all united states armed forces worldwide will stand up to defcon 3
i have a brief statement
president kennedy will address the nation tonight
on radio and television on a subject of the hightest national urgency
he has requested airtime on all three networks for seven p . m .
thank you very much
mr. president
congress cannot give you the support you' re looking for
mr. president ?
sir ?
if they want this goddamn job they can have it
it' s no great joy to me
mr. president , here' s the speech with those changes you wanted
i need a minute
kenny , no
a minute
i don' t want a goddamn pep talk
you' re not the harvard quarterback anymore
we' re on the brink here
they' re trying to second guess me into world war three
well , it' s not gonna happen
what did you think congress was gonna do ?
offer you unconditional support ?
kiss your catholic ass ?
they don' t think we even deserve to be here
what the hell do you think ?
i think we haven' t been that impressive to date and they have good reason to question our judgment
what do you want , kenny ?
i want you to sit down
i' m not gonna sit down
i want you to sit down
loosen your tie and take a minute for yourself
i haven' t got a minute !
you' re the president of the united states
they can wait for you
why not
things can' t get much worse
we could have to ... go down to lyndon' s ranch again dressed up as cowboys
shoot deer out of the back of his convertible
that was a bad day
you know i thought there' d be ore good days
you know back when we were in the wards the day bobby made me come down to meet you
i didn' t get you at first
i thought you were lucky
your father had a lot of money
you were skinny
girls loved you
i thought i could beat you and bobby up together
but he ... just kept going on and on about you
i thought it was because he was your brother
but i was wrong
i was wrong
you sleeping ?
no , not much
i slept last night , though
and when i woke up
i' d forgotten that all this had happened
and then i remembered and i just wished for a second somebody else was president
you mean that ?
i said for a second
boy , there is a lot of noise out there , kenny
you know what you' re doing mr. president
you' re gonna make the best call you can
and you know they' re gonna second guess you
so what ?
we' re just gonna have to take our beatings as we go
so what are we gonna do now ?
i' m going on tv
maybe the american people will go with me
even if their ... elected representatives won' t
you wear something nice for the tv
make sure jackie picks it
excuse me
okay , everybody .
i think we' re ready
no .
i' m fine
mr. president , in five ... four ... three ... two ...
good evening , my fellow citizens
this government , as promised has maintained the closest surveillance of the soviet military build up on the island of cuba
within the past week unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island
the purpose of these bases can be none other than to provide a nuclear strike capability against the western hemisphere
acting therefore in the defense of our own security and under the authority entrusted to me by the constitution
i have directed that the following initial steps be taken immediately
first to halt this offensive build up a strict quarantine on all offensive military equipment under shipment to cuba is being initiated
all ships of any kind bound for cuba form whatever nation or port will , if found to contain cargoes of offensive weapons , be turned back
second
i have directed the continued and increased close surveillance of cuba and its military build up
should these military preparations continue further action will be justified
i have directed the armed forces to prepare for any eventualities
and third
it shall be the policy of this nation to regard any nuclear missile launched from cuba against any nation in the western hemisphere as an attack by the soviet union on the united states requiring a full retaliatory response upon the soviet union
good speech , teddy
i guess i get to keep my job
no
it was a really good speech
i can' t imagine what you did with the air strikes version
i wasn' t able to write , kenny
it' s kind of hard to write the unthinkable
i tried , i just ...
i couldn' t
we' re getting the soviet response
it' s coming in on the teletype
the community of nations recognizes
the fundamental right of freedom of the seas ...
this is horseshit
i agree
they don' t know how to respond yet
so now you' re kruschev
what do you do ?
you run the blockade
they' il run the blockade
which is what they appear to be preparing to do , mr. president
we' re tracking 26 ships inbound for cuba
they show no sign of changing course
the closest ships the gagarin and the kimovsk will make the quarantine line by this time tomorrow
admiral anderson if the ships do not stop exactly what are our rules of engagement ?
russian speaking personnel have been transferred to our ships
when the quarantine takes place in the morning our ships will attempt radio contact with approaching vessels
they' il be ordered to reduce speed and stand by for inspection
an inspection team will then board and search the vessel
if weapons are found , the ship will be ordered out of the quarantine area
if they refuse they' il be towed into the nearest port
what if the ship doesn' t stop for inspection or want to be towed ?
we fire a warning shot across their bow
and what happens if the ship ignores the warning shot ?
wen then fire at its rudder disable it and carry on our inspection
there will be no shooting without my explicit orders
is that understood ?
yes sir
well , admiral looks like it' s up to the navy
the navy won' t let you down , sir
there is one other thing mr. president
we' re commencing low level photography runs over cuba this morning
it' il be more detailed than the u 2 photography
we' il firm up our estimates of the missiles ' readiness and develop target packages for strikes if you should order them , sir
to protect our pilots we' re prepared to retaliate against any sam site or anti aircraft battery that may open fire
we have a flight of thunderchiefs that' il be able to respond within minutes to any attacks on our planes
i' ve got a bad feeling about what' s going on in there
in the morning
i' m taking charge of the blockade from the situation room
and mcnamara is gonna set up shop in the flag plot at the pentagon
he' il keep an eye on things there
good
you get armed boarders climbing on the soviet ships with shots being fired across bows
what about these low level flights ?
we need the flights
they' re starting in what ?
an hour
do you realize what you' re in for ?
we need the flights because the minute that first missile becomes operational we gotta go in there and destroy them
fair enough .
but castro' s on alert and we' re flying attack planes over their sites on the deck
there' s no way for them to know we' re carrying cameras , not bombs
they' re going to be shot at plain and simple
i' m your political advisor
i' m giving you a political analysis
this is a set up
the chiefs want to go in
they need to redeem themselves for the bay of pigs
they gotta go in this time and do it right
i' m gonna protect those pilots
they' re boxing us in with these rules of engagement
if you agree and one of our planes gets knocked down or one of the ships won' t stop fro inspection the chiefs will have us by the balls and will force us to start shooting
they want a war
and they' re arranging thing to get one
how does a man get to a place where he can say " throw those lives away " so easily ?
maybe it' s harder for them to say than they let on but at the very least they believe it' s in our best interest
and you know what ?
at the end of the day they may well end up being right
i' il tell you one thing
we have to triple check everything the chiefs say to us with the guys that actually do it
and nobody' s to know about this but bobby
i need redundant control over what happens out there
if things aren' t advertised then you are gonna make sure they come out the way i want
starting with this low level flight thing
that' s gonna be tough
you know how these guys are about their chains of command
listen , tell them those chains of command end at one place me
go ahead , sir
speak up , lady .
i cannot hear you
i got a train to catch and i' d like to be home by christmas
that' s the one
what' s her name ?
margaret
margaret
yes sir , i understand exactly what you' re talking about
i speak the language , too
what ?
margaret , would you mind helping me with something ?
what do you need , honey ?
that tone of voice , specifically
what tone of voice ?
what the hell is he talking about ?
i told you , sir i' m sorry , you' re outta here
ready room
skipper .
what are you doing ?
looking out the door
i' il get him for you
at what ?
cuba
skipper !
telephone
commander ecker
commander ecker
this is the white house operator
please hold
shit
honey , you don' t know what shit is
commander my name' s ken o' donnell
special assistant to the president
yes , sir
the presiden' ts instructed me to pass along an order to you
you are not to get shot down
we' il do our best , sir
i don' t think you understand me , commander
you are not to get shot down under any circumstances
whatever happens up there you were not shot at
mechanical failures are fine crashing into mountains , fine
you are not to be shot at , fired at or launched upon
excuse me , sir what the hell is going on here ?
commander , if you are fired upon the president will be forced to attack the sites that fired upon you
he doesn' t want to have to do that
it' s very important that he doesn' t or things could go very badly out of control
what about my men ?
if we don' t have anybody to protect us
i' m gonna be writing letters home for parents
if the president protects you , commander he may have to do it with the bomb
i' ve known the man for fifteen years the problem is he will protect you
so i' m asking you don' t make him protect you
don' t get shot at
okay , mr. o' donnell we' il do what we can
i know you will
good luck
hey , joey
see you , joey
thanks , joey
there you go , jeremy
hey , bruce
skipper ?
never mind .
just do what i do
hand signs only
you are clear
ready to go , sir
good luck , skipper
shit !
did you see it ?
man !
you were lucky , skipper !
danm sparrows
musta been migrating
sparrows ?
probably hit a couple hundred of them
how many did you hit , bruce ?
sparrows ?
a few , i guess
these 20 millimeter or 40 millimeter sparrows , sir ?
those are bird strikes
sparrows , to be precise
that' s the way it is , guys
get that film packed up !
commander ecker
hello ?
sir
commander
mr. o' donnell , i' ve been ordered to deliver the film to the pentagon personally
what' s going on here ?
the chiefs must wanna talk to you
they' re gonna want to know if you were fired on
were you ?
you could say that , sir
commander , listen to me
i know this must fly in the face of everything you' ve come to serve but i' m asking you to look through this to the other side
commander william b. ecker reporting as ordered
commander
sir
put your gear down over here
would you like a glass of water or anything ?
no , thank you , sir
sir
ecker
have a seat
commander i assume you know why you' re here
son
i wanna know just one thing
did those bastards shoot so much as a bb gun at you ?
it was a cakewalk , sir
mr. president
the oas meeting starts in less than an hour
good .
i think we need this one .
dean
we can' t expect miracles
the quarantine is legal if we get a mandate
otherwise it' s an act of war in the eyes of the world
so you gotta get me the vote
and make it unanimous
mr. president the organization of american states hasn' t had a unanimous vote since ...
unanimous , dean
in accordance with this afternoon' s vote at the organization of american states the quarantine will hereby be effective as of ten o' clock tomorrow morning
at eight a . m . this morning the united states detonated a hydrogen bomb above johnston island in the south pacific
the blast was quickly condemned by the soviet union who called upon all nations to denounce the united states for bringing the world to the brink of destruction
who the hell authorized the test ?
what is this gonna say to the russians ?
they look warlike ?
jesus christ we' re lighting off nuclear weapons
like it' s our own private fourth of july
you know what ?
we should have brought in the guys from the atomic energy commission and talked this through
looked at these tests a little harder before just giving the go ahead
you know , last summer i read a book " the guns of august
i wish every man on that blockade line had read that book
it' s world war one
there' s thirteen million killed
it' s all because the militaries of both alliances believed that they were so highly attuned to one another' s movements and dispositions , they could predict one another' s intentions
but all their theories were based on the last war
and the world and technology had changed and those lessons were no longer valid
but it was all they knew so the orders went out couldn' t be rescinded
the man in the field , his family at home , they couldn' t even tell the reasons why their lives were being destroyed
but why couldn' t they stop it ?
what could they have done ?
here we are 50 years later
say one of their ships resists the inspection and we shoot out its rudder and board
they shoot down one of our planes in response
so we bomb their anti aircraft sites in response to that
they attack berlin
so we invade cuba
and they fire their missiles
