holy mackerel !
call headquarters .
get the lieutenant .
holy christmas !
that thing' s doing about 4, 000 !
but that' s incredible , sir .
that can' t be aircraft .
must be a buzz bomb .
this is luckton at ferris to charlie baker .
i have a bogey at 200, 000 feet .
4, 000 miles an hour .
reports are coming in from all over the empire , all over the world .
the government has not yet issued a statement , but there is no question that there actually is a large , unidentified object circling the earth at incredible speed .
this is elmer davis again .
we still don' t know what it is or where it comes from , but there' s something there .
it' s been tracked around the earth by radar , travelling at a rate of4, 000 miles an hour .
this is not another " flying saucer " scare .
scientists and military men are already agreed on that .
whatever it is , it' s something real .
we interrupt this programme to give you a bulletin from a naval unit at sea .
an object travelling at supersonic speed is headed towards the east coast of the states .
this is hv kaltenborn speaking .
here in the nation' s capital there is anxiety and concern , but no outward sign of panic .
as a matter of fact , there are signs of normalcy the beautiful spring weather , the tourist crowds around the public monuments and other buildings .
they' re here !
they' re here !
they' ve landed !
over on the mall !
they' ve landed !
get me the chief of staff .
thank you .
hold the line , please .
hello .
i want to speak to the president .
i' m sorry , but you' il have to interrupt him .
good afternoon .
this is drew pearson .
we bring you this special broadcast in order to give you the very latest information on an amazing phenomenon : the arrival of a spaceship in washington .
government and defense department officials are concerned by reports of panic in several large eastern cities .
i am authorised to assure you that , so far , there is no reasonable cause for alarm .
the rumours of invading armies and mass destruction are based on hysteria and are absolutely false .
i repeat , these rumours are absolutely false .
the ship , designed for travel outside the earth' s atmosphere ,
landed in washington today at 3 . 47pm eastern standard time .
we still do not know where it came from .
the ship is now resting exactly where it landed two hours ago , and so far there is no sign of life from inside it .
troops have been rushed across the potomac river from fort myer and have thrown a cordon around the ship .
they are supported by tanks , artillery and machine guns .
behind the police lines there' s a huge crowd of curiosity seekers .
the army has taken every precaution to meet any emergency which may develop .
every eye , every weapon is trained on the ship .
it' s been that way for two hours , and the tension is just beginning ...
just a minute , ladies and gentlemen .
i think something is happening .
we have come to visit you in peace , and with goodwill .
gort !
deglet ovrosco !
it was a gift for your president .
with this , he could have studied life on the other planets .
get that ambulance over here .
take him to walter reed hospital right away .
mr harley , sir , from the white house .
general .
right in there , mr harley .
my name is harley , secretary to the president .
i' ve been told you speak our language , and that your name is mr ...
klaatu ?
just klaatu .
the president conveys his deepest apologies for what happened .
sit down , mr harley .
thank you .
i' m sure i need hardly point out that your arrival was something of a surprise .
had you been travelling long ?
about five months .
your months .
you must have come a long way .
about 250 million of your miles .
naturally , we are very curious to know where you come from .
from another planet .
let' s just say that we' re neighbours .
it' s hard for us to think of a planet as a neighbour .
in the present situation you' il have to learn to think that way .
the present situation ?
i mean the reason for my coming here .
we' re very curious about that , too .
would you care to talk about it ?
i' d be glad to .
not now , of course , with you alone .
you' d rather talk personally with the president ?
this is not a personal matter , mr harley .
it concerns all the people on your planet .
i ...
i' m not sure i understand .
i want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the earth .
i' m afraid that would be a little awkward .
it' s completely without precedent .
and there are practical considerations the time involved , the enormous distances .
i travelled 250 million miles .
i appreciate that , but ...
i want to be frank with you , mr ...
i mean klaatu .
our world at the moment is full of tensions and suspicions .
in the present international situation , such a meeting would be quite impossible .
what about your united nations ?
you know about the united nations ?
we' ve been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years .
that' s how we learned your languages .
i' m sure you recognise from our broadcasts the evil forces that have produced the trouble in our world .
surely ...
i' m not concerned with the internal affairs of your planet .
my mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles .
it concerns the existence of every last creature on earth .
perhaps if you could explain a little ...
i intend to explain .
to all the nations , at the same time .
how do we proceed , mr harley ?
well , we could call a special meeting of the general assembly .
but the un doesn' t represent all the nations .
then i suggest a meeting of all the chiefs of state .
believe me , you don' t understand .
they wouldn' t sit down to the same table .
i don' t want to resort to threats , mr harley .
i merely tell you that the future of your planet is at stake .
i urge that you transmit that message to the nations of the earth .
i will make that recommendation to the president .
but i must tell you in all honesty , i' m extremely dubious about the results .
apparently i' m not as cynical about earth' s people as you are .
i have been dealing in earth' s politics a good deal longer than you have .
good night , sir .
it is now 2am , and the giant robot still hasn' t moved .
engineers from nearby fort belvoir have failed to budge him , and metallurgical experts have found his huge body impregnable .
they' re now concentrating on the ship itself , so far with no results .
getting anyplace , sergeant ?
oh , no , sir .
this beats me , sir .
i saw the ramp come through the side of the ship right here .
now i can' t even find a crack .
oh , carlson .
what' s the report ?
no luck , sir .
we' ve tried everything from a blowtorch to a diamond drill .
what about him ?
he' s made out of the same stuff .
has he moved , sergeant ?
no , sir .
not an inch .
this is the toughest material i ever saw , general .
for hardness and strength , it' s out of this world .
i can tell you officially that' s where it came from !
the skeletal structure' s completely normal .
the tests show the same for major organs the heart , liver , spleen , kidneys .
yeah , and the lungs are the same as ours .
that must mean a similar atmosphere , similar pressure .
how old do you think he is ?
oh , i' d say 35 , 38 .
he told me this morning while i was examining him .
he' s 78 .
well , i don' t believe it .
life expectancy is 130 .
how does he explain that ?
says their medicine' s much more advanced .
he was very nice about it , but he made me feel like a third class witch doctor .
i removed a bullet from that man' s arm yesterday .
well , what about it ?
i just examined the wound , and it' s healed .
what does he say about it ?
said he put salve on it , stuff he had on him .
what are you gonna do with it ?
take it downstairs and have it analysed .
then i don' t know whether to just get drunk or give up the practice of medicine .
afternoon , mr harley .
good afternoon , gentlemen .
good afternoon .
i' m glad to see you up and around .
thank you .
have you any news ?
not very good news , i' m afraid .
the president accepted your suggestion , and cabled the invitations for a meeting .
let me read you some of the replies .
the premier wishes to inform the us government it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the president , unless the meeting is held in moscow .
the suggestion of the president of the possibility of a meeting in moscow would be unacceptable to his majesty' s government at present .
representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in washington .
well , there you have it .
now you understand more clearly , perhaps you' d like to discuss it with the president .
i will not speak with any one nation or group of nations .
i don' t intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies .
our problems are very complex , klaatu .
you mustn t judge us too harshly .
i can judge only by what i see .
your impatience is quite understandable .
i' m impatient with stupidity .
my people have learned to live without it .
i' m afraid my people haven' t .
i am very sorry .
i wish it were otherwise .
before making any decisions , i think i should get out among your people , and become familiar with the basis for these strange , unreasoning attitudes .
under the circumstances , i' m afraid that' s impossible .
i must ask that you don' t try to leave the hospital .
our military people have insisted on this .
i' m sure you understand .
the man from the spaceship got away !
what ?
get every available man .
hospital authorities refuse to comment on how he managed to escape ...
he' s not eight feet tall , as reported , nor does he have tentacles ... there' s no denying a monster is at large , and we are dealing with forces beyond our knowledge and power .
the public is advised to take ordinary precautions and to remain calm as we await ...
until they' ve had an opportunity to study the ship .
they seem to agree , however , that either venus or mars is the most likely possibility .
not only are these the closest planets to earth , but all research to date indicates they are the only two planets capable of sustaining life as we know it .
however , all reputable scientists warn against jumping to hasty conclusions .
professor havemeyer of mlt , for example , points out it s possible , in light of our meagre knowledge .
the president has urged all citizens to be on the alert for any information about this man , and to transmit such information immediately to the police , the army or the fbl .
while the president made no effort to minimise the crisis , he urged people all over the country to remain calm .
and i might add , that though this man maybe our bitter enemy , he could be also a new found friend .
unfortunately , the only photos we have ...
mom , do you think i could ... ?
hey , who' s that ? .. do not show the man' s face .
the president said the entire facilities of the fbi and every other federal agency are being brought to bear .
he pointed out , however , that this is no ordinary manhunt .
he warned " we maybe up against powers that are beyond our control ...
what is it you want ?
my name is carpenter .
i need a room .
oh , i see .
are you an fbi man ?
no , i' m afraid not .
i' il bet he is .
he' s looking for the spaceman .
we' ve all been hearing too much about spacemen .
this is mrs benson , mr carpenter .
how do you do ?
and little bobby .
mr and mrs barley .
and mr krull .
how do you do ?
and i' m mrs crockett .
i have a very nice room on the second floor .
it gets the sun all day long .
can i help you look for the spaceman ?
i know what he looks like .
he' s got a big square head with three eyes .
that' s enough , bobby .
it' s late .
excuse me .
we mustn' t annoy mr carpenter , or he won' t want to stay here .
he' s really a dear little boy , and quiet as a mouse .
you' re a long way from home , aren' t you ?
how did you know ?
oh .
i can tell a new england accent a mile away .
now we take you to miami beach , florida , fork report from gabriel heatter .
mr heatter ?
and now on this sunday morning we ask some questions that have been haunting the entire nation for two whole days .
this creature : where is he ?
what is he up to ?
if he can build a spaceship that can fly to earth , and a robot that can destroy our tanks and guns , what other terrors can he unleash at will ?
obviously , the monster must be found .
he must be tracked down like a wild animal .
he must be destroyed .
but where would such a creature hide ?
would he disappear into the north woods ?
would he crawl into the sewers of some great city ?
everybody agrees there is grave danger .
the question remains : what can we do to protect ourselves ?
what measures can we take to neutralize this menace from another world ?
destroy it ?
of course , but how ?
and if we do destroy it , what do we face in retaliation ?
it' s not a simple problem ...
george , turn it off .
i' m trying to concentrate .
why doesn' t the government do something ?
what can they do ?
they' re only people , like us .
people , my foot !
they' re democrats .
it gives you the shakes .
he' s got that robot standing there , just waiting for orders to destroy us .
this spaceman , or whatever he is .
we automatically assume he' s a menace .
maybe he isn' t at all .
then what' s he hiding for ?
why doesn' t he come out in the open ?
like heatter says , " what' s he up to ?
maybe he' s afraid .
he' s afraid !
well , after all , he was shot the minute he landed here .
i was just wondering what i would do .
perhaps before deciding on any action , you' d want to know more about the people , to orient yourself in a strange environment .
there' s nothing strange about washington .
a person from another planet may disagree .
if you want my opinion , he comes from right here on earth .
and you know where i mean .
they wouldn' t come in a spaceship .
only planes .
i wouldn' t be too sure about that .
that fellow wants something , otherwise he wouldn' t be here .
that right , mr. carpenter ?
i' m a little confused .
oh , mrs. benson , mr. stevens is here to see you .
oh , thank you .
excuse me .
george , finish your coffee .
i promised the carsons i' d be there at 11 .
good morning .
good morning .
we' re set .
i put gas in the car and the radio' s broken , so we can forget about the spaceman .
there' s one thing .
i haven' t anyone to stay with bobby .
i don' t suppose we could take him with us ?
well ...
well , we could .
there' s always someone here , but today they' ve all got plans .
i haven' t any plans .
i' d be happy to spend the day with him , if you d let me .
say , that would be great .
wouldn' t it ?
it' s awfully nice of you to suggest it .
sorry .
mr. carpenter , this is tom stevens .
how do you do , mr. carpenter ?
hello .
bobby and i had a fine time yesterday afternoon .
we talked and listened to the radio .
i thought today he might like to show me around the city .
well ...
suppose i ask bobby how he feels about it ?
fine .
you think it' s all right ?
sure .
that' s my father .
he was killed at anzio .
did all those people die in wars ?
most of ' em .
didn' t you ever hear of the arlington cemetery ?
no , i' m afraid not .
you don' t seem to know much of anything .
well , i' il tell you , bobby , i' ve been away a long time .
very far away .
is it different where you' ve been ?
don' t they have places like this ?
they have cemeteries , but not like this one .
you see , they don' t have any wars .
gee , that' s a good idea .
what would you like to do ?
go to the movies .
all right .
no fooling ?
no fooling .
bobby , tell me , do you have to have money to go there ?
i' ve got two dollars .
mom gave it to me .
no .
i want to take you to the movie .
do you think they' d accept these ?
gee , they look like diamonds !
in some places , those are what people use for money .
they' re easier to carry and don' t wear out .
i' il bet they' re worth a million dollars .
would you give me your $2 for two of these ?
well ...
sure .
ok .
let' s not say anything to mom about this , though .
why not , bobby ?
she doesn' t like me to steal from people .
those are great words .
he must have been a great man .
well , sure .
that' s the kind of man i' d like to talk to .
bobby , who' s the greatest man in america today ?
i don' t know .
the spaceman , i guess .
no , i was speaking of earthmen .
i meant the greatest philosopher or thinker .
you mean the smartest man in the world ?
yes , that would do nicely .
professor barnhardt , i guess .
he' s the greatest scientist .
he lives here in washington , doesn' t he ?
near where mom works .
where' s that ?
department of commerce .
she' s a secretary .
that man they call the secretary isn' t at all .
my mom' s a real secretary .
mr. carpenter , now can we go see the spaceship ?
if you like .
i' il bet that iron guy' s strong and could knock down a whole building .
i shouldn' t be at all surprised .
i' d like to get inside that ship , see how it works .
what do you think makes it go ?
a highly developed form of atomic power , i should imagine .
i thought that was only for bombs .
no .
no , it' s for lots of other things , too .
do you think it can go faster than the f 86 ?
yes , i should think so .
about 1, 000 miles an hour ?
maybe 4, 000 miles an hour .
and outside the earth' s atmosphere , a good deal faster .
how could they make a landing ?
there are several ways to reduce landing speed .
you see , the basic problem is to overcome the inertia ...
keep going , mister .
he was fallin ' for it !
thank you , mrs. robinson .
i' m sure we' ve all shared your fears during the past few days .
i see a gentleman here with his little boy .
what do you think of the spaceship , son ?
it' s the biggest spaceship i ever saw .
and you , sir .
mind telling us your name ?
my name is carpenter .
care to say a few words ?
i suppose you' re just as scared as the rest of us .
in a different way , perhaps .
i am fearful when i see people substituting fear for reason .
in fact , i would ...
uh , thank you , mr. carpenter .
thank you very much .
i see another gentleman in the crowd ...
extra !
extra !
spaceman eludes police !
army put in charge .
read all about it !
spaceman eludes police !
extra !
extra !
get your paper here .
army put in charge .
extra !
extra !
read all about it !
you think they' il ever find him ?
i don' t know , bobby .
i' m inclined to doubt it .
mr. carpenter , what is inertia ?
the property of matter by which it remains in uniform motion unless acted upon by external force .
oh .
i' il bet that' s just the way professor barnhardt talks .
bobby , i have an idea .
let' s go and find out how barnhardt talks .
you' re kidding !
wouldn' t you like to meet him ?
sure i would , but i bet you' d be scared .
maybe we can scare him more than he can scare us .
i like you , mr. carpenter .
you' re a real screwball .
extra !
extra !
spaceman still at large .
extra !
read all about it .
get your paper here .
maybe he isn' t home .
gee , i' il bet you this is where he works .
what' s that stuff on the blackboard mean ?
it' s a problem in celestial mechanics .
i' il bet he' s the only one that knows the answer .
he doesn' t know the answer .
and he' il never get it that way .
we probably couldn' t get to see him even if he was home .
hey , where are you going ?
if he' s that difficult to see , perhaps we ought to leave a calling card .
did he do it wrong ?
he just needs a little help .
what are you doing in here ?
how dare you write on that blackboard !
do you realize the professor' s worked on that problem for weeks ?
he' il solve it in no time now .
how did you get in ?
what do you want ?
to see professor barnhardt .
well , he' s not here .
and he won' t be back till this evening .
i think you' d better leave now .
would you give this to the professor ?
i think he' il want to talk to me .
i wouldn' t erase that .
the professor needs it very badly .
mr. carpenter come home yet ?
yeah , he' s inside .
tell him i' d like to see him .
ok .
come on in .
your name carpenter ?
yes .
professor barnhardt been looking for me ?
i' ve been looking for you all afternoon .
thank you .
it was a wonderful day .
you still haven' t answered my question .
you know how i feel , tom , but i just want to think it over .
boss goes to chicago tomorrow .
if i could tell him i was marrying and had dependants ...
you' re a good salesman , but i' ve got to think about it .
a good insurance salesman wouldn' t give you time to think about it .
good night .
night .
hiya , mom .
hello , darling .
good evening , mr. carpenter .
good evening .
uh , mrs. benson , this is mr. brady .
how do you do ?
mr. brady' s a government agent !
have a nice day , dear ?
we had a swell time , didn' t we ?
yes .
we went to the movies and had ice cream cones , and then we went to see daddy .
i don' t know how to thank you .
i enjoyed every minute of it .
we better get going , mr. carpenter .
aw , gee , you didn' t finish your story .
i' il finish it tomorrow .
good night , bobby .
good night .
good night .
come on , dear .
time to go to bed .
why did mr. carpenter have to go with mr. brady ?
i don' t know .
maybe it was a mistake .
oh .
we sure had fun today .
we saw the spaceship and we went to see professor barnhardt .
professor barnhardt ?
yeah , sure .
mom , do i have to go to school tomorrow ?
yes , of course , dear .
gee .
i was hoping i could go out with mr. carpenter again .
oh , come in .
the professor' s in his study .
thank you .
this is the man you wanted to see , professor .
thank you , captain .
i' il wait outside .
you wrote this ?
it was a clumsy way to introduce myself .
but i understand you' re a difficult man to see .
i thought you' d have the solution by now .
not yet .
that' s why i wanted to see you .
all you have to do now is to substitute this expression at this point .
that will reproduce the first order term .
but what about the effect of the other terms ?
almost negligible .
with variation of parameters , this is the answer .
how can you be so sure ?
have you tested this theory ?
i find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another .
i am klaatu .
i spent two days at your walter reed hospital , room 309 .
my doctor' s name was major white .
if you re not interested or if you intend to turn me over to your army , we needn' t waste any more time .
you may go now , captain .
please thank general cutler , and tell him ... tell him that i know this gentleman .
you have faith .
it isn' t faith that makes good science , mr. klaatu .
it' s curiosity .
sit down , please .
there are several thousand questions i' d like to ask you .
i' d like to explain something of my mission .
that was my first question .
we know from observation that your planet has discovered a rudimentary atomic energy .
and that you' re experimenting with rockets .
yes , that is true .
while you were limited to fighting among yourselves with primitive tanks and aircraft , we were unconcerned .
but soon one of your nations will apply atomic energy to spaceships .
that will create a threat to the peace and security of other planets .
that , of course , we cannot tolerate .
what exactly is the nature of your mission , mr. klaatu ?
i came here to warn you that by threatening danger , your planet faces danger , very grave danger .
i' m prepared , however , to offer a solution .
would you care to be more specific ?
what i have to say must be said to all concerned .
it is too important to be entrusted to any individual .
i gather that your efforts on the official level were not successful .
i come to you as a last resort , and i confess my patience is wearing thin .
must i take drastic action to get a hearing ?
what ... what sort of action do you mean ?
violent action , since that seems to be the only thing your people understand .
leveling new york city perhaps , or sinking the rock of gibraltar .
would you meet with the group of scientists i' m calling together ?
you could explain your mission to them and they , in turn , could present it to their peoples .
that' s why i came to see you .
it is not enough to have men of science .
we scientists are too often ignored or misunderstood .
we must get leaders from every field the finest minds in the world .
i leave that in your hands .
one thing , mr. klaatu .
suppose this group should reject your proposals .
what is the alternative ?
i' m afraid there is no alternative .
in such a case , the planet earth would have to be ... eliminated .
such power exists ?
i assure you , such power exists .
the people who come to the meeting must be made to realize this .
they must understand what is at stake .
you mentioned a demonstration of force .
yes .
would one be possible before the meeting ?
yes , of course .
something to dramatize for them and their people the seriousness of the situation .
something to affect the entire planet .
that can easily be arranged .
i wouldn' t want you to harm anybody or destroy anything .
leave it to me .
i' il think of something .
maybe a little demonstration .
something dramatic , but not destructive .
that' s quite an interesting problem .
would the day after tomorrow be all right , say about noon ?
there are no further developments , but police and the fbi are tracing every possible clue and rounding up all suspects ...
rummy !
oh , my .
did it again !
take a hand , mr. carpenter ?
take a ... ?
oh .
no , thanks .
we don' t ...
no , thanks .
are you going out , dear ?
yes .
tom' s picking me up .
personally , i wouldn' t go out after dark these days .
but then i' m not courting , am l ?
oh !
oh , mr. carpenter .
everyone seems so ...
jittery " is the word .
bobby' s the only person i know who isn' t ... jittery .
he has his homework to keep him occupied .
he' s a fine boy , mrs. benson .
naturally , i think so .
warm , friendly , intelligent .
mr. carpenter ...
this is none of my business , but why did that man come here last night ?
they just wanted to ask me a few questions .
bobby and i tried to see professor barnhardt in the afternoon .
he wasn' t in .
apparently they thought i was looking for secrets of some kind .
excuse me .
hello .
hello .
are you ready ?
in a minute .
the picture starts at 8 . 50 .
i was with mr. carpenter .
i hope he won' t think i' m intruding .
sh !
what ...
good evening .
excuse me , i was just going up to my room .
good night , mr. carpenter .
have a good time , both of you .
thank you .
why don' t you wait in here while i get my things ?
tom , that was awful .
i' m just tired of hearing about mr. carpenter .
tom !
i don' t like how he' s attached himself to you and bobby .
what do you know about him ?
i' il go get my things .
all you have to remember is first find the common denominator , and then divide .
thanks , mr. carpenter .
i' il say good night again .
mr. carpenter ...
i ...
good night .
good night , mrs. benson .
bed now .
you can finish that in the morning .
ok .
bobby .
i think it would be better if we didn' t see quite so much of mr. carpenter .
gee , why , mom ?
he' s my best friend , and he' s awful good in arithmetic .
he even helps professor barnhardt .
did you really go to see professor barnhardt ?
sure we did .
he wasn' t there , but we went to see him .
and mr. carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic .
mom , is something wrong with mr. carpenter ?
what do you mean , dear ?
on account of last night .
you think he' s a bank robber , or a gangster maybe ?
no , dear , of course not .
he' s a very nice man .
i just think that he might prefer to be left alone , that' s all .
now you go to bed and forget about it .
good night , darling .
good night .
mom ?
why would he wanna be left alone ?
don' t forget to brush your teeth .
bobby , have you a flashlight ?
yeah .
it' s a real boy scout one .
fine .
here .
all you gotta do is push up on it .
oh .
what do you need it for ?
i' ve , uh ...
the light in my room went out .
oh .
i must tell you sometime about a kind of train that doesn' t need any tracks .
really ?
really .
remind me in the morning to tell you .
ok .
no tracks .
gort !
baringa !
come in for a minute .
bobby , what are you doing up ?
i couldn' t sleep .
i had to tell you .
tell me what ?
after you left , i followed mr. carpenter , and where do you think he went ?
right into the spaceship !
now , bobby , wait a minute .
honest , mom .
i saw him .
it opened up and he walked in .
that big iron fella was walking around , too .
bobby , you' ve been dreaming again .
no , i haven' t , mom .
honest .
i promise you , i saw him !
where' d you see all this ?
on the lawn down at the mall .
in that place with the soldiers out in front .
where were the soldiers ?
that big iron guy grabbed ' em and knocked ' em out .
i like mr. carpenter , mom , but i' m kinda scared .
don' t be frightened .
it was only a bad dream .
here , we' il prove it to you .
tom , ask mr. carpenter to come down .
sure .
he' s in the room next to mine .
ok .
think back .
you didn' t follow mr. carpenter at all , did you ?
you haven' t even been outside .
yes , i have !
you didn' t really see a spaceship , but you thought you did .
i' d never call you a liar .
he' s not there , but look what i found in his room .
is it real ?
it looks real to me .
mr. carpenter' s got lots of diamonds .
he gave me a couple of ' em .
he gave these to you ?
well , not exactly .
i gave him two dollars .
this doesn' t make sense .
i think he' s a crook .
i never did trust him .
gee , you think he' s a diamond smuggler ?
you' re going to bed now .
i wonder if we ...
bobby and i have had enough excitement for tonight .
do you think it' s all right to stay here ?
i' ve got a good lock on my door .
bobby' s gonna sleep in my room tonight .
come on now , up to bed with you .
bobby , your shoes are soaking !
yeah .
the grass was kinda wet .
i' m going now , helen .
all right .
hello .
may i see you for a minute ?
well , i' m just going to lunch .
may i walk out with you ?
well ...
mrs. benson speaking .
oh , hello .
i' m getting an appraisal on that diamond .
can we lunch together ?
can i talk to you later ?
oh , that' il be fine .
bye .
i saw bobby this morning before he went to school .
yes ?
i' d like to know what he told you last night .
i really didn' t pay much attention .
bobby has such an active imagination .
did you believe what he told you ?
i have a reason for asking this .
a very important reason .
there' s another elevator we can use .
what is it you want ?
before i ask you to be honest with me , perhaps i should be completely honest with you .
what happened ?
what time is it ?
just 12 . 00 .
we shall be here for a little while .
about 30 minutes .
we can try pushing the other buttons .
they won' t work .
why not ?
you see , the electricity' s been neutralized ... all over the world .
bobby was telling the truth , wasn' t he ?
yes .
it' s that spaceman .
that' s what it is .
you should see it !
you should go out and see it for yourself !
thanks .
i am enjoying it right here .
the city has stopped .
people are running around like ants .
what a brilliant idea .
i never would have thought of it .
the people who are coming to the meeting tonight , have they arrived ?
yes .
i talked to them on the phone .
they' re all very curious about the meeting .
good .
did you speak to our friend mr. carpenter ?
he' il be there at 8 . 30 .
tell me , hilda , does all this frighten you ?
does it make you feel insecure ?
yes , sir .
it certainly does .
that' s good , hilda .
i' m glad .
as far as we can tell , power' s been cut off everywhere , with a few exceptions .
and even these exceptions are remarkable hospitals , planes in flight , that sort of thing .
i wish i could tell you more but , as you know , all communications are out telephones , radio , cable , everything .
i can tell you the president is prepared to declare a state of national emergency .
eleanor , did you call the electrician ?
i tried , but the phone doesn' t work either .
well , call the phone company .
but the phone doesn' t work !
is it worth anything ?
i have never seen such a stone in all my life .
will you tell me where it came from ?
that' s what i want you to tell me .
but there are no diamonds like this anyplace in the world that i know of .
are you sure of that ?
uh , would you like to sell it ?
no .
no , thanks .
i' d give you a very good price .
thank you , no .
i' ve told you more than i told barnhardt because , in a sense , my life is in your hands .
i thought if you knew the facts , you' d see the importance of the meeting tonight .
of course .
of course i do .
you hold great hope for this meeting .
i can see no other hope for your planet .
if this meeting should fail , then i' m afraid there is no hope .
it must be 12 . 30 .
yes .
just exactly .
where are you going now ?
the boarding house .
i' il be safe there for today .
i can watch bobby .
he' s the only other person who knows ...
no , wait .
there' s someone else .
who ?
tom .
he was there last night when bobby told me what he saw .
do you think he' d tell anyone ?
i think he' d talk to me first anyway , before ...
well , we can' t take any chance .
i' il get in touch with him right away to make sure .
but i' ve got to talk to him .
it' s important .
when is he coming back ?
i don' t know , mrs. benson .
he left before noon , before that awful electric business .
i' m scared to death , mrs. benson .
i ...
no , he wouldn' t tell me where he was going .
he said it was something personal .
well , please ask him to call me the minute he gets in .
thanks .
before we discuss plans , i want a report from colonel ryder .
what about the robot ?
when it was discovered that the robot had moved ,
i was directed by the joint chiefs to find a means of immobilizing him .
we accomplished that this morning by encasing him in a block of kl93 , a new plastic material stronger than steel .
isn' t it possible he' s broken out ?
no , sir .
we just checked on that .
he' s locked up tight as a drum .
all right .
now we concentrate on the man .
up till now we' ve agreed upon the desirability of capturing this man alive .
we can no longer afford to be so particular .
we' il get him , alive if possible , but we must get him .
is that clear ?
yes , sir .
honest , mary , i' m so scared i can' t sit still .
i' d like to run someplace , but i don' t know where to go .
bye now .
margaret , call the pentagon .
find out who' s in charge of this spaceman business .
whoever it is , i wanna talk to him .
mrs. benson called .
she says it' s important .
get this other call first .
oh , mrs. benson , he just walked in .
fine .
are you nervous , too ?
yes , i am .
helen , come on in .
i' ve been trying to get you all afternoon .
i have some terrific news about mr. carpenter .
what about him ?
he' s the spaceman .
i had that diamond checked at three places .
nobody' s ever seen a stone like that .
after what bobby told us , that' s enough for me .
why is it nobody knows about him ?
why hasn' t he got money ?
all right , tom , it' s true .
i know it' s true .
you ...
how do you know ?
never mind about that .
promise you won' t say a word to anybody .
after what happened today ? !
you don' t realize how important this is .
of course it' s important .
and we can do something about it .
that' s what i' m saying .
we must do nothing .
believe me .
he' s a menace .
it' s our duty to turn him in .
but he isn' t a menace .
he told me why he came here .
he told ...
he told you ?
oh , don' t be silly , honey , just because you like the guy .
you realize what this' d mean to us ?
i' d be the biggest man in the country .
is that what you' re thinking about ?
somebody has to get rid of him .
i won' t let you do it .
yes ?
this is important ...
what' s his name , margaret ?
general cutler .
yes .
oh , all right , i' il hold on .
you mustn' t .
it isn t just you and mr. carpenter .
the rest of the world is involved .
i don' t care about the rest of the world .
you' il feel different when you see my picture in the papers .
i feel different now .
you wait .
you' re gonna marry a big hero .
i' m not going to marry anybody .
helen , i ...
hello , general cutler ?
no , i don' t want to speak to his aide .
i want to speak to the general .
tell him it' s about the spaceman .
that' s right .
that' s where he' s staying .
yes , of course i' m sure .
thank you , mr. stevens .
i' il want to talk to you further , but i haven' t time now .
deploy all zone five units according to plan b. immediately !
hello , mrs. benson .
hello , sammy .
attention , all units .
attention , all units .
when deployed according to plan baker , maintain station and remain on radio alert until further orders .
i' m sure barnhardt can hide me until the meeting .
where' s the meeting going to be ?
at the ship .
yeah , they got in a taxicab and went off down that street .
thank you , son .
attention , zone five .
attention , zone five .
yellow cab moving north on 14th street from harvard street .
man and woman in back seat .
get license number and report .
that' s the one !
right .
attention , zone five .
license number of target vehicle is h0012 .
hey .
looks like something big' s going on .
attention , zone five .
report when target vehicle passes your position .
it' s only a few blocks to barnhardt' s .
i' m worried about gort .
i' m afraid of what he might do if anything should happen to me .
gort ?
but he' s a robot .
without you , what could he do ?
there' s no limit to what he could do .
he could destroy the earth .
if anything should happen to me , you must go to gort .
klaatu barada nikto .
please repeat that .
klaatu ... barada nikto .
you must remember those words .
klaatu barada nikto .
yellow cab , license number h0012 , heading west on 15th street at treasury place .
the target vehicle is turning west into massachusetts avenue .
yellow cab at columbia road and connecticut .
repeat , columbia road and connecticut .
attention , all units , northwest area , zone five .
block off all streets intersecting connecticut avenue on a line from wisconsin to the park .
all vehicles close in .
let' s go .
say , what' s going on here ?
drive ...
get that message to gort ... right away .
captain , hold these people back .
yes , sir .
see if they have a stretcher at the police station .
take him there .
gort .
klaatu barada nikto .
klaatu barada nikto .
yes , sir .
yes , we have the body here now , locked in a cell .
there' s no question about it , general .
he' s dead all right .
i understand .
i' il be right there , sir .
bring in a squad of men .
place a guard around that cell .
captain , don' t let anyone in or out of here .
yes , sir .
come along .
professor barnhardt ?
yes .
i' m very sorry , but i have to ask you to call off this meeting .
call it off ?
but i had permission from the army .
i know , sir , but the robot' s on the loose , and it' s not safe .
you have to get your people out .
hello .
i ...
i thought you were ...
i was .
you mean ... he has the power of life and death ?
no .
that power is reserved to the almighty spirit .
this technique , in some cases , can restore life for a limited period .
but ... how long ?
you mean , how long will i live ?
that , no one can tell .
under the circumstances , the army people have asked us to leave .
and , since their concern is for our safety ,
i can do nothing but suggest that we comply .
i am leaving soon , and you will forgive me if i speak bluntly .
the universe grows smaller every day , and the threat of aggression by any group anywhere can no longer be tolerated .
there must be security for all , or no one is secure .
this does not mean giving up any freedom , except the freedom to act irresponsibly .
your ancestors knew this when they made laws to govern themselves , and hired policemen to enforce them .
we of the other planets have long accepted this principle .
we have an organization for the mutual protection of all planets , and for the complete elimination of aggression .
the test of any such higher authority is , of course , the police force that supports it .
for our policemen , we created a race of robots .
their function is to patrol the planets in spaceships like this one , and preserve the peace .
in matters of aggression we have given them absolute power over us .
this power cannot be revoked .
at the first sign of violence , they act automatically against the aggressor .
the penalty for provoking their action is too terrible to risk .
the result is , we live in peace , without arms or armies , secure in the knowledge that we are free from aggression and war , free to pursue more profitable enterprises .
we do not pretend to have achieved perfection , but we do have a system , and it works .
i came here to give you these facts .
it is no concern of ours how you run your own planet .
but if you threaten to extend your violence , this earth of yours will be reduced to a burned out cinder .
your choice is simple .
join us and live in peace , or pursue your present course and face obliteration .
we shall be waiting for your answer .
the decision rests with you .
