new orleans rallroad statlon
can i help you , ma' am .
why , they told me to take a streetcar named desire , and then transfer to a one called cemeteries and ride six blocks and get off at elysian fields !
here' s your car now .
thanks
new orleans street
and so when he got home she was just waitin ' .
madame , honey , you lost ?
un i' m looking for elysian fields .
this here is elysian fields . what number you' re lookin ' for ?
six forty two
you need to look no further
i' m looking for my sister , stella dubois .
i mean mrs ....
stanley kowalski .
gee !
that' s the party all right , but you sure just did miss her .
this ?
can this be her home ?
she' s got to the downstairs here and i got the up .
oh , she' s out ?
you noticed that bowling alley up the street ?
why , i' m not sure i did
well , that' s where she' s at , honey . she' s watchin ' her husband bowl .
bowllng alley
blanche !
blanche , hon !
stella !
oh , stella !
stella for star !
oh , my darling now let me look at you ,
but don' t you look at me , stella , no , no , no !
i can' t be looked at in this merciless gtare !
did you find my place ?
stella , what are you doing in a place like that ?
never , never , never in my worst dreams could i picture only poe !
only mr. edger allen poe could do justice to it .
what are you doing in that horrible place ?
oh , what i am saying ?
i didn' t mean to say that .
i meant to be nice about it and say oh , what convenient location and such precious lamb !
you haven' t said a word to me .
you haven' t given me a chance to , honey !
now you talk .
open your pretty mouth and talk .
come and see my stanley first .
no , no !
not now .
but just say hello .
oh , which is he ?
which one which one is he ?
the one that' s making all the rhubarb .
isn' t he wonderful looking ?
stella , i can' t meet him now , not till i ' m bathed and dressed .
would you like a cold drink ?
oh , bless you !
what a lovely inspiration !
cocktall loung
how would you like some pop ?
pop ?
oh , not with my nerves tonight !
a scotch for me , please .
oh , great !
you haven' t asked me how i happened to get away from the school before the spring term ended .
well , i thought you' d volunteer that information if you wanted to tell me .
you thought i' d been fired ?
no , i thought you might have resigned
i was so exhausted by all i' d been through my nerves broke .
i was on the verge of lunacy , almost !
so , mr. graves mr. grave is the high school superintendent .
thank you
he suggested i take a leave of absence .
i couldn' t put all of those details into the wire .
oh , this buzzes right through me and feels so good !
would you like another !
if you don' t mind .
you haven' t say a word about my appearance .
you look fine .
god love you for a liar !
daylight never exposed so total a ruin !
but you you' ve put on some weight .
yes you' re just as plump as a little partridge !
and it' s so becoming to you
now , blanche !
yes , it is it is or i wouldn' t say it .
you just have to watch around the hips a little .
i want you to look at my figure .
you know i haven' t put on one ounce in ten years , stella ?
i weight now what i weighed the summer you left bella reve , the summer dad died and you left us
it' s just incredible , blanche , how well you look .
are you sure you don' t want another ?
well , well , maybe just one little tiny nip more , sort of to put the stopper on , so to speak
now don' t get worried , you sister hasn' t turned into a drunkard ,
she' s just all shaken up and hot and dirty and tired .
waiter !
waiter !
stella' s flat
you want it hot ?
scalding .
stella !
what is it , hon ? there' s only two rooms ,
i don' t see where you' re going to put me ?
we' re going to put you right in here .
well , what kind of bed' s this one of those collapsible things ?
does it feel all right ?
oh , wonderful , honey , i don' t like a bed that gives much .
but stella !
there' s no door between the two rooms , and stanley will it be decent ?
stanley is polish , you know .
oh , yes .
something like irish , isn' t it ?
well i brought some nice clothes to meet all your lovely friends in
well , i' m afraid you won' t think they are lovely .
well anyhow i brought nice clothes and i' il ware them .
i guess you' re hoping i' il say i' il put up at a hotel , but i' m not going to put up at a hotel .
i' ve got to be near you , stella .
i' ve got to be with you , stella .
i can' t be alone !
because as you must have noticed
i' m not very well
you do seem a little
will stanley like me , or will i just be a visiting in law ?
i couldn' t stand that , stella .
you' il get along fine together ,
if you' il just try not to compare him with an officer .
he was an officer ?
he was a master sergeant in the engineer' s corps .
decorated four times !
he had those on when you met him ?
i assure you i wasn' t just blinded by all the brass .
that' s not what i
but of course there were things to adjust myself to later on .
such as his civilian background !
how did he take it when you said i was coming ?
oh , he' s on the road a good deal and
oh , travels ?
good !
i mean isn' t it
i can hardly stand it when he is away for a night
why ?
stella ! when he' s away for a week i nearly go wild !
gracious !
and when he comes back i cry on his lap like a baby
i guess that is what is meant by being in love
stella , i haven' t asked you the things you probably thought i was going to ask .
and so i' il expect you to be understanding about what i haven' t to tell you .
what , blanche ?
you' re going to reproach me , stella .
i know that you' re bound to reproach me but before you do take into consideration you left !
i stay and struggled !
you come to new orleans and looked out for yourself .
i stayed at belle reve and tried to hold it together !
oh , i' m not meaning this in any reproachful way , but all the burden descended on my shoulders .
the best i could do was make my own living , blanche .
i know , i know .
but you are the one that abandoned belle reve , not i !
i stayed and fought for it , bled for it , almost died for it !
stop this hysterical outburst and tell me what' s happened .
oh , stella .
i knew you would i knew you would take this attitude about it !
about what ?
please ?
the loss the loss
belle reve ?
lost , is it ?
yes .
but how did it go ?
what happened ?
you' re a fine to ask me how it want !
blanche !
you' re a fine one to stand there accusing me of it !
blanche !
blanche !
i , i , i took the blows in my face and my body !
all of those deaths !
the long parade to the graveyard !
father , mother !
margaret , that dreadful way !
you just came home in time for the funerals , stella .
and funerals are pretty compared to deaths .
how do you think all that sickness and dying was paid for ?
death is expensive , miss stella !
and i and my pitiful salary at the school .
you , accuse me !
stand there and stare at me .
tinking i let the place to !
i let the place go ?
where were you ?
in bed with your polack !
blanche !
you be still !
that' s enough !
oh , stella , stella , you' re crying !
does that surprise you ?
hey , are we going to play it out tonight ?
no , not at my house .
my mother' s still sick .
all right .
you bring the beer !
break it up down there !
i made the spaghetti dish and ate it myself .
now , now , honey , i told you and phoned you we was playing jax beer
what' s so funny ?
you never phoned me once .
i told you at breakfast and phoned you at lunch
well , never mind about that .
you just get yourself home .
now , what d' you want ?
you want it in the newspapers ?
i' m sick and tired of your tricks .
you must be stanley , i' m blanche .
oh , you' re stella' s sister ?
yes how are yuh ?
where' s the little woman ?
in the bathroom .
oh !
where you form , blanche ?
why , i live in auriol .
in auriol , auriol , huh ?
oh , yes .
that' s right , in auriol .
that' s not in my territory .
liquor goes fast in the hot weather .
you want a shot ?
no , i rarely touch it .
well , there' s some people rarely touch it , but it touches them often .
hey , do you mind if i make myself comfortable ?
my shirt' s stickin ' .
please , please do
be comfortable .
that' s my motto up where i come from .
it' s mine , too .
it' s hard to stay looking fresh in hot weather .
why , i haven' t washed or even powdered and here you are !
you know you got to be careful sitting around in damp things , catching cold , especially when you been exercising hard like bowling is .
what' re you doin ' ?
you' re a teacher , aren' t you ?
yes .
what do you tech ?
english .
oh , i never was a very good english student .
how long you here for ?
i don' t know yet .
you going to shack up here ?
i thought i would if it' s not inconvenient for you all .
traveling wears me out .
well , take it easy .
one of those cats hey , stella !
what are you doin ' ?
fall asleep in there ?
huh ?
well , i guess i' il strike you as being the unrefined type , eh ?
you know , stella' s spoke a good deal about you .
she said you were married once , weren' t you ?
yes .
when i was quite young .
the boy the boy died .
i' m afraid i i' m going to be sick !
looks like she' s fixed to stay a while yeah !
hey , stan , are we playing tonight ?
yeah !
well , i figure maybe we ought  forget about maybe .
come on just the same .
all right , i go and get the other one ?
yes .
thanks , stanley .
stella !
is that stanley back with my blue trunk ?
yes , blanche .
honey , will you get my blue net out for me ?
yes , blanche .
it was so good of stanley to call for my trunks .
he was glad to go it .
i' il see you later .
all right .
just don' t forget .
oh , honey , i' m takin ' blanche to galatoire' s for supper and then a show , because it' s your poker night .
how about my supper ?
i' m not going to no galatoire' s tonight .
i put you a cold plate on ice .
oh , honey i' m going to try to keep blanche out till the party breaks up because i don' t know how she' s take it .
well , isn' t that just dandy !
so you' d better give me some money .
hey , where' s she now ?
she' s soaking in a hot tub to quiet her nerves .
she' s terribly upset .
over what ?
she' s been through such an ordeal .
we' ve lost belle reve !
you mean the place in the country ?
uh huh .
how ?
oh , it had to be sacrificed or something .
when she comes in be sure to say something nice about her appearance , and , oh , don' t mention the baby .
i haven' t said anything yet .
i' m waiting until she gets in a quieter condition .
and try to understand her and be nice to her , honey .
she wasn' t excepting to find us in such a small place .
you see i' d tried to gloss things over a little in my letters .
and admire her dress and tell her she' s looking wonderful .
that' s important with blanche .
her littler weakness !
okay , honey , i get the idea .
but now i mean now let' s skip back a little to where you said the country place was disposed of .
oh yes  how about how about a few more details on that subject .
now look , it' s best not to talk much about it until she' s calmed down .
looks like that' s the kind of deal .
your sister blanche can' t be annoyed with business details right now !
you saw how she was last night .
uh hum .
i saw how she was .
now let' s have a gander ant the bill of sale .
i haven' t seen any .
she didn' t show you no papers , no deed of sale or nothing like that ?
it seems like it wasn' t sold .
well , what in hell was it then , give away to charity ?
shhh !
she' il hear you .
oh , i don' t care if she hears me .
now , let' s see the paper !
honey , there weren' t any paper , she didn' t show any papers , i don' t care about papers .
wait !
now , listen !
did you ever hear of the napoleonic code , stella ?
no , stanley , i haven' t heard of the napoleonic
now , i' il go get it .
now just let me enlighten you on a point or two .
yes ?
now , we' ve got in the state of louisianan what' s known as the napoleonic code .
you see , according to which what belongs to the wife belongs to the husband also and vice verse .
could you listen ?
now like , take for instance , if i have a piece of property , or you had a piece of property
my head is swimming !
all right , then .
okay , we' il wait till she' s through soakin ' in a hot tub and then i' il inquire if she is acquainted with the napoleonic code .
oh , stanley , don' t be so silly .
it looks to me like that you' ve been swlndled , baby , and when you get swindled , under the napoleonic code , i get swindled too .
and i don' t like to get swindled .
oh , stanley , you' ve no idea how ridiculous you' re being when you suggest that my sister or i or anyone else of our family could leave perpetrated a swindle on anyone else .
oh , come now !
where' s the where' s the money if the place was sold ?
not sold lost , lost !
come here .
stanley !
now , will you just open your eyes to this stuff here ?
now , i mean , what she got here out of a teacher' s pay ?
will you look at these fine feathers and furs that she come to preen herself in here ?
what is this article ?
that' s a solid gold dress , i believe .
and this one here .
what is that ?
a fox piece !
could anyone afford a genuine fox piece a half a mile long !
where where are you fox furs ?
oh , this here bushy snow white ones , no less !
where are your white fox furs ?
those are inexpensive summer furs that blanche has had a long time .
listen !
i have an acquaintance who deals in this sort of merchandise and he' s comin ' in here and making an appraisal of this .
don' t be such an idiot , stanley !
now , listen !
i' m willing to bet you there' s thousands of dollars invested in this stuff !
well , all right , now .
what is that ?
the treasure chest of a pirate !
oh , stanley !
pearls !
ropes of them !
what is this sister of yours , a deep sea diver ?
bracelets of solid gold !
where are your pearls and gold bracelets ?
shhh !
be still , stanley !
and here you are !
diamonds !
a crown for an empress !
a rhinestone tiara she wore to a costume ball .
what is what' s rhinestone ?
next door to glass .
yeah ?
well , i have an acquaintance who works in a jewelry store .
he' s coming in here to make an appraisal of all that stuff .
here' s your plantation , or what was left of it .
you have no idea how stupid and horrid you' re being !
now close that trunk before she comes out of the bathroom !
the kowalskis and the dubois have just a different notion on this .
indeed they have , thanks heavens i' m going outside .
you come out with me while blanche is getting dressed .
now since when are you giving me orders ?
are you going to stay here and insult her ?
you bet you life i' m going to stay here .
hello , stanley !
here i am , all freshly bathed and scented and feeling like a brand new human being !
that' s good .
will you , then excuse me while i put on my pretty new dress !
go right ahead .
thank you .
i understand there' s to be a little card party here tonight to which we ladies are cordially not invited !
that' s right .
where where' s stella ?
she' s out there on the porch .
i' m going to ask a favor of you in a moment .
what' s that going to be , i wonder ?
well , some buttons in back !
you may enter !
how do i look ?
you look okay .
many thanks !
now the buttons !
well , i can' t do mo more with them .
you mean with your big clumsy fingers .
may i have a drag of your cig ?
have one yourself .
why , thanks it looks like my trunk has exploded .
me an ' stella was helping you unpack .
well , you certainly did a fast and thorough job .
it certainly looks like you raided some stylish shops of paris , blanche .
clothes are my passion !
how much does it cost for a string of fur piece like that ?
why , those were a tribute from an admirer of mine !
he mush have had a lot of admiration !
oh , in my youth i excited some admiration .
but look at me now !
would you think it possible that i was once considered to be attractive ?
you looks are okay .
i was fishing for a compliment , stanley .
i don' t go in for that stuff .
what ?
compliments to women about their looks .
i never met a dame yet that didn' t know if she was good looking or not without being told , and some of them give themselves credit for more than they ' ve got .
i once went out with a dame who told me , " i' m the glamorous type , " she says , " i am the glamorous type ! " i say , " so what ?
and what did she say then ?
she didn' t say nothing .
that shut her up like a clam .
did it end the romance ?
well , it ended the conversation that was all .
you know that some one , blanche , that are took in by this hollywood glamour stuff whereas some men just are not .
i' m sure you belong in the second category .
that' s right .
i cannot imagine any which of a woman casting a spell over you .
that' s right .
you' re simple , straightforward and honest , a little bit on the primitive side , i should think .
to interest you a woman would have to
would have to lay her cards on the table ,
well , i never did care for wishy washy people .
that was why , when you walked in here last night , i said to myself " my sister has married a man !
of course , that was all that i could tell about you .
now let' s cut the re bop
stanley !
stanley , you coming outside with me and left blanche finish dressing !
i' ve finished dressing , honey .
well , you come out , then .
your sister and i are having a little talk .
honey , do me a favor .
run to the drug store and get me a lemon coke with plenty of chipped ice in it !
will you do that for me , sweetie ?
please !
yes .
the poor little thing was out there listening to us , and i have an idea she doesn' t understand you as well as i do
all right , now , mr. kowalski , let us proceed without any more digression .
i' m ready to answer all question .
i' ve nothing to hide .
what is it ?
in the state of louisiana , we ' ve got here what is known as the napoleonic code , according to which what belongs to the wife belongs to the husband also and vice verse .
my , but you have an impressive judicial air ! ......
all right .
cards on the table .
i know i fib a good deal .
after all , a woman' s charm is fifty percent illusion , but when a thing is important i tell the truth , and this is the truth .
i never cheated my sister , or you or anyone else on earth as long as i' ve lived .
new , where' s the papers ?
in your trunk ?
everything that i own is in that trunk .
what are you thinking of !
what' s in the back of that little boy' s mind of yours ?
let me do that !
it will be faster and simpler i keep my papers mostly in this tin box .
what are those underneath ?
there are love letters , yellowing with antiquity , all from one boy .
give those back to me !
i' il have a look at them first !
the touch of your hands insults them !
don' t put that stuff !
now that you' ve touched them i' il burn them !
poems a dead boy wrote .
i hurt him the way that you would like to hurt me , but you can' t !
i' m not young and vulnerable any more .
but my young husband was and i i never mind about that !
just give them back to me !
what do you mean by saying you' il have to burn them up ?
i' m sorry , i must have lost my head for a moment .
everyone has something they won' t let others touch because of their intimate nature
ambler & ambler crabtree more ambler & ambler .
what is ambler & ambler ?
a firm that made loans on the place .
then it was lost on a mortgage ?
that must have been what happened .
there are thousands of papers , stretching back over hundreds of years , affecting belle reve as piece by piece our improvident grandfathers exchanged the land for there epic debauches
here they are .
all of them , all papers !
i hereby endow you with them !
take them , peruse them commit them to memory , even !
i think it' s wonderfully fitting that belle reve should finally be this bunch of old papers in your big , capable hands
i wonder if stella' s come back with lemon coke .
i have a lawyer acquaintance who will study them out .
present them to him with a box of aspirin tablets .
blanche , under the napoleonic code a man has got to take an interest in his wife' s affairs and i mean , especially now that she' s going to have a baby .
stella ?
stella going to have a baby ?
i didn' t know she was going to have a baby !
stella , stella for a star !
how lovely to have a baby !
it' s all right .
everything' s all right .
i felt a bit shaky , but i think i handled it nicely ,
i laugh and treated it all as a joke .
i called him a little boy and flirted !
yes , i was flirting with your husband , stella !
the guest are gathering for the poker party .
i am sorry he did that to you .
oh , i guess he' s just not the type that goes for jasmine perfume , but maybe he' s what we need to mix with our blood now that we' ve lost belle reve and have to go without belle reve to protect us .
oh , how pretty the sky is !
i ought to go there on a rocket that never comes down which way do we go now , stella this way ?
no , this way .
the blind leading the blind !
red hot !
red hot !
are you going to upstairs and tell her to cut that out ?
if i go upstairs , i won' t come down .
let' s just forget it . remember that night she poured boiling water through the cracks in the floor ?
come on !
what d ' you say ?
no !
i' m out , i' ve got to go home pretty soon .
every time you win a big pot you all like to stop .
well , i got a sick mother and she don' t go to sleep until i get in at night  shut up , i say .
well i' m going to wash up .
stella ah yes , eunice ?
you tell the guys the kettle' s on the stove .
i couldn' t break up the game .
how do i look ?
wait till i powder .
i feel so hot and terrible .
do i look done in ?
why , you are as fresh as a daisy .
one that' s been picked a few days .
why don' t somebody go to the chinaman' s and bring back a load of chop suey when i' m losing you want to eat !
well , well , well .
i see you boys are still at it ! where you been ?
blanche and i took in a show .
uh , blanche , honey , this is mr. gonzales and mr. hubbell .
how do you do ?
please don' t get up .
nobody' s getting up here .
so don' t get worried .
poker is so fascinating , could i kibitz ?
you could not .
why don' t you women go up to eunice' s ?
how much longer is this game going to continue ?
till we get ready to quit .
couldn' t you call it quits after one more hand ?
hey !
that' s my coat !
that' s no fun , stanley .
it makes me so mad when he does that in front of people .
i think i will bathe .
again !
my nerves are in knots .
is the bathroom occupied ?
i don' t know .
oh !
good evening .
oh , hello .
uh blanche , this is harold mitchell .
this is my sister , blanche dubois .
how do you do ?
how do you do , miss dubois .
how is your mother now , mitch ?
oh , she' s about the same , thanks .
she appreciated your sending over that custard .
excuse me , please excuse me !
stella !
that one seems superior to the others .
does he ?
i thought he had a sort of sensitive look .
his mother is sick .
is he married ?
no .
is he a wolf ?
why , blanche !
no , i don' t think he would be .
what does he do ?
he' s on the precision bench in the spare parts department .
at the plant stanley travels for .
is that something much ?
no , stanley' s the only one in his crowd that' s likely to get anywhere .
why , blanche !
you' re standing in the light !
oh , am i !
gracious !
you ought to see their wives .
oh , i can imagine .
big , beef things , i suppose .
you know that one upstairs ?
you hens cut out that cackle in there !
you can' t here us .
well .
you can hear me and i told you to hush up !
look !
this is my house and i' il talk as much as i want to .
stella , don' t start a row .
oh , he' s half drunk !
i' il be out in a minute .
what d ' you say , mitch ?
come on , mitch , are you here ?
no , i' m out .
who turned it on in there ?
i did .
do you mind ?
well , turn it off !
aw , come on , will you ?
let the girls have their music !
now , here we are !
i didn' t hear you name it .
didn' t i name it , mitch ?
oh , i wasn' t listenin '
what the heck were you doing , then ?
he was looking through them drapes .
now deal the hand over again and let' s play cards or quit .
deal me out .
this game is " spit in the ocean
yes ?
oh , hello !
excuse me .
uh , the little boy ' room is occupied right now .
oh , excuse me .
have you got any cigs ?
oh , sure .
oh , good .
what a pretty case .
silver ?
yes , yes , read the inscription .
oh , is there an inscription ?
i can' t make it out .
oh !
and if god choose , i shall but love thee better after death !
why , that' s from my favorite sonnets by mrs. browning !
oh , you know it ?
certainly i do !
well , there' s a story connected with this inscription .
it sounds like a romance .
no , no !
it' s a pretty sad one the girl' s dead now .
oh !
she knew she was dying when she gave me this .
a very strange girl , very sweet very !
she must have been very fond of you , sick people have such deep , sincere attachments . that' s right , they certainly do .
sorrow makes for sincerity , i think .
it sure brings it out in people .
the little there is belongs to people who have known some sorrow .
i believe you are right about that ..
i' m positive i am .
hey , mitch !
deal me out .
i' m talking to miss
dubois .
dubois ?
it' s a french name .
it means " woods and blanche " means " white " , so the two together mean " white woods " .
like an orchard in spring !
you can remember it by that , if you care do .
you are stella' s sister , are you not ?
yes , stella is my precious little sister .
i call her little in spite of the fact she' s somewhat older than i am .
oh !
just slightly .
less than a year .
will you do something for me ?
sure .
yes .
what ?
i bought this adorable little paper lantern at a chinese shop on bourbon .
put it over the light bulb !
will you , please ?
i' il glad to .
i can' t stand a naked light bulb , any more than i can a rude remark or a vulgar action .
well , i guess we strike you as being a pretty rough bunch .
i' m very adaptable to circumstances .
well , that' s a good thing to be .
you' re not ?
married ?
no , no .
i' m an old maid schoolteacher !
you may be a school teacher but you' re certainly not an old maid .
why , thank you , sir !
i appreciate your gallantry !
so you are in the teaching profession ?
yes .
ah , yes
grade school or high school or  mitch !
coming .
gracious , what lung power !  i teach high school .
in auriol .
what do you teach ?
what subject ?
you guess ?
well , i bet you teach art or music ?
well , of course i could be wrong .
you might teach arithmetic .
never arithmetic , sir , never arithmetic !
i don' t even know my multiplication tables !
no !
i have the misfortune of being an english instructor .
i attempt to instill a bunch of bobby soxers and drug store romeos whit reverence for hawthorne and withman and poe !
but i bet that some of them are more interested in other things .
how very right you are !
their literary heritage is now what they treasure above all else . it' s touching to notice them making their first discovery of love !
as if nobody had ever known it before .
oh , have you finished ?
oh , yes .
yes .
i have .
wait !
wait i' il turn on the radio . turn on the light above me .
three bullets , moustache !
straight !
i got you , ha ha ha ha ha !
stella !
stan !
stan , what are you doing ?
drunk drunk your animal thing , you !
get out !
get out !
all of you , get out !
my sister is going to have a baby !
stanley !
stanley !
stanley !
stanley !
you come on up to my place , stella .
come on !
lunacy , absolute lunacy !
stella !
stella !
honey !
hey , stella !
honey , where are you ?
stella !
hey , baby !
you can have my bed , stella .
blanche and i will have steve' s place ,
he ain' t comin ' home tonight if he knows what' s good for him .
look , look !
she ain' t comin ' down and she ain' t going to talk to you either .
so you might just as well not call her .
hey , stell lahhhh !
you quit that howling down there and go to bed .
eunice , i want my girl down here !
you shut up or you' re going to get the law on you .
hey , stell lahhhh !
you can' t beat on a women an ' then call' er back !
she won' t come !
and her goin ' t ' have a baby !
listen , eunice !
i hope they do haul you in and turn the fire hose on you , same as the last time .
eunice , i want my girl to coma down with me .
you stinker !
hey , stell lahhhh !
hey , stell lahhhh !
oh , he makes me sick !
where have you been , baby ?
blanche !
come back !
miss dubois ?
oh
all quiet along the potomac now ?
she ran downstairs and went back in there with him .
why , sure she did .
i' m terrified !
there' s nothing to be scared of , they' re crazy about each other .
i' m not used to such  naw , it' s a shame this hand to happen when you just go here .
violence !
is so  set down on the steps and have a cigarette with me .
why , i' m not properly dressed .
that don' t make no difference in the quarter .
such a pretty silver case .
i showed you the inscription , didn' t i ?
yes .
there' s so much so much confusion in the world thank you for being so kind !
i need kindness now .
stella !
hmmmh ?
stella !
oh , my baby , my baby sister !
blanche , what is the matter with you ?
he' s left ?
stan ?
yes .
will he be back .
he' s gone to get the car greased .
why ?
why !
i' ve been half crazy , stella !
how could you come back in this place last night !
he was as good as a lamb when i came back and he' s really very , very ashamed of himself .
and that that makes it all right ? ...
no !
eunice and you had breakfast ?
do you suppose i wanted any breakfast ? you' re so matter of fact about it all , stella .
what other can i be ?
he' s taken the radio to get it fixed .
it ' didn' t land on the pavement so only one tube was smashed .
and you are standing there smiling !
what you are want me to do ?
just pull yourself together and face the facts .
what are they , in your opinion ?
in my opinion ?
you' re married to a mad man !
oh , no !
i' ve got a plan for us both to get us both out of here .
i wish you' d stop talking it for granted that i am in something that i want to get out of .
i take it for granted that you still have sufficient memory of belle reve to find this place and these pokers impossible to live with .
well , you' re talking entirely too much for granted .
i can' t believe you' re in earnest .
no ?
i understand how it happened a little , you saw him first in uniform , an officer , not there but
i' m not sure it would have made any difference where i saw him .
what you are talking about is desire just brutal desire , stella .
i have told you i love him .
then i tremble for you !
i just tremble for you  i can' t help you trembling if you insist on trembling !
may i speak plainly ?
yes , do .
go ahead , as plainly as you want to .
if you' il forgive me he' s common !
yes , i suppose he is .
suppose ?
surely you can' t have forgotten that much of our up bring , stella , that you just suppose that there' s any part of a gentleman in his nature !
oh , you' re hating me saying this , aren' t you ?
go on and say it all , blanche .
he acts like an animal , has an animal' s habits !
there' s even something sub human about him .
thousands of years have passed him right by , and there he is stanley kowalski survivor of the stone age !
bearing the raw meat home from the kill in the jungle !
and you you here waiting for him !
maybe he' il strike you or maybe he' d grunt and kiss you !
that is , if kisses have been discovered yet !
his poker night ! you call it this party of apes !
maybe we are a long way from being made in god' s image , but stella my sister there have been some progress since then !
such things as art as poetry and music and some kinds of people some tendered feelings have had some little beginning !
that we have got to make grow ! and cling to , and hold as our flag in this dark march toward whatever it is we' re approaching
don' t don' t hang back wlth the brutes !
hey , stella ?
hey , stella ?
hi , yuh .
is blanche back yet ?
yeah , she' s back .
hiyuh , blanche
i bet you got under the car .
that jerk mechanic at fritz' s just don' t know his axle grease from third base
hey !
don' t you throw that at me !
you hit me !
i will call the police !
looks like eunice is having trouble with steve .
did eunice get the police ?
nah , she' s getting ' a drink at the four deuces .
that' s much more practical !
blanche is making us some new slip covers .
hey , she here ?
naw , she went to the four deuces .
that no good rutting hunk !
hey , stella , i can' t find my new pair of shoes .
we cleaned in there .
i' il get them .
i can' t find any of my stuff anymore .
stanley !
what sign were you born under ?
what sign ?
astrological sigh .
i bet you were born under aries .
aries people are forceful and dynamic .
they dote on noise !
they love to bang things around !
stanley was born just five minutes after christmas .
capricorn the goat !
say , do you happen to know somebody named shaw ?
why , everybody knows someone by the name of shaw ?
well , this somebody named shaw is under the impression he met you in auriol , but i figure he must have got you mixed up with same other party because this other party is somebody that he met at a hotel called the flamingo .
why , i' m afraid he does have me mixed up with this " other party " . the hotel flamingo is not a place that i would dare to be seen in !
you know of that ?
i' ve seen it and smelled it .
you must' ve got pretty close if you could smell it .
the odor of cheap perfume is penetrating .
that stuff you use is expensive ?
twelve dollars an ounce !
i' m nearly out .
that' s just a hint if you want to remember my birthday .
i figure that he must have got you mixed up but he goes in and out of auriol all the time so he can check on it and clear up any mistake .
i' il see you at the four deuces !
hey !
don' t i rate on one kiss ?
not in front of your sister ,
don' t cry .
i only do that with this other girl because i love you , baby .
stella !
hello !
are you still scared of the thunder ?
what have you heard about me ?
huh ?
what have people been telling you about me ?
telling ?
you haven' t heard any unkind gossip about me ?
why , no , blanche , of course not !
honey , there was quite a lot of talk in auriol .
talk !
who cares !
why , .. i haven' t been so good the last two years or so , since belle reve started to slip through my fingers .
all of us do things we  i never was hard or self sufficient enough ,
soft people soft people ' ve got to court the favor of the hard ones , stella .
they' ve got to shimmer and glow i don' t know how much longer i could turn the trick .
it isn' t enough to be soft .
you' ve got to be soft and attractive .
and i i' m fading now !
have you been listening to me ?
i never listen to you when you are being morbid !
