the hero , the searcher is shown the way .
like the trail of a scent " , says the novel ,
the glow in front of him led him up the stairs .
the old house sucks freder in , it makes him its prisoner , it draws him into the depths .
the machinery of the old house is like a model of the narrative mechanism , which keeps both hero and audience moving ... always being shown something , before it quickly disappears again .
another sign ...
mary' s scarf .
and once again freder' s call for the virgin , the mother is answered by ...
a vision , a staging .
an earlier concept for the film presented medieval and modern ages in different forms .
mrs. von harbou and l " , remembers lang forty years later , " included a battle between modern science and occultism in the screenplay , the sorcerer was the evil force behind all events " but they deviated , lang says , from this concept .
centuries behind , centuries ahead " , it says in the screenplay ,
rotwang' s laboratory was " half a quack' s kitchen from the year 1500 and half experimental laboratory of a man from the year 2000 .
in rotwang' s character harbou and lang merged both magic and modernity in one entity .
a hermaphrodite , like the film in which he appears .
that could have been conceived and staged by him , just like the transformation of the mechanical woman into the image of mary .
his staging combines both feminine and masculine form and movement , translated into a spectacle of light .
a luciferic act of procreation .
rotwang endows his machine with mary' s attributes ... but he also allows the feminine sexuality , which is repressed in the figure of the virgin mother , to be unleashed in the double .
the chaste mary , the white and merciful , the virgin , and the hot , destructive , the red , the vamp are two aspects of the same character .
rotwang' s experimental table , with mary as snow white waiting in her glass coffin to be awakened , can be seen as the couch of rotwang the psychoanalyst .
her subconscious manifests itself in the arcs of light stretching between her and the mechanical woman .
freder , like awakening from a nightmare , sees himself in another one .
hel' s room ... her memorial is behind the curtain .
mary' s theme , agitato , in a minor key .
the false mary , flesh of the flesh of the true mary , while at the same time a remote controlled machine at the core .
why is fredersen so doggedly determined , to destroy the true mary ?
in the figure of the merciful preacher , he seems to sense a female challenge
that of matriarchy to his patriarchal principle of absolute power .
freder' s oedipus experience .
the shock causes freder to see father and mother whom he images as mary rotating around each other .
i want to kill you !
i want to destroy you !
i want to murder you !
in the film , a fall " downwards , into the depth " into the chasm of his subconscious .
freder in bed , the father in tails .
an obvious feeling of helplessness in front of his father' s aura of authority .
the son remains in the care of the , in part female , staff .
a sick child .
freder' s unconscious state again fades into a rotwang staging .
can it be that freder and rotwang are not so much rivals as the alter egos of each other ?
they love the same woman , the dead hel .
the absence of the mother , the lover provides the inspiration for freder' s visions just as much as for rotwang' s stagings .
rotwang' s audience consists entirely of men , old and young , fathers and sons .
like a blasphemous halo " , says the screenplay , the diadem on the woman' s head appears in the round opening of the domed roof ... that fades out .
rotwang' s show is a film , another of rotwang' s light productions , with footlights and counter lighting .
rotwang' s show and freder' s delirium become one .
an important strand in this mesh , freder' s reminiscence of the monk' s sermo in the cathedral , has again been cut by the adaptors .
isolated , edited gestures and the positions of the dancer , combined with the picture of the audience
groups , singles , only eyes finally
rotwang' s production becomes lang' s ... pure montage cinema .
rotwang' s show now clearly becomes freder' s vision , the memory of the seven deadly sins in the cathedral ,
of the monk' s sermon on the whore of babylon , which he associates with the image of the false mary , the new hel , the mother whore ...
which becomes one with that of the metropolis , the mother city .
freder , convalescent , is reading .
a copy of the page which was shown at this point in the film .
again , two parallel scenes , the second once more cut by the adaptors .
the spy reports to the father , the friend to the son .
nothing remains of this scene , but screenplay and score
lead to the assumption that these takes were repeated here .
only very few of the yoshiwara takes have remained intact , this one in a copy found in australia , incomplete , the end is missing , as one of the sons shoots the other .
freder and josaphat set off ,
fredersen gives slim an order ...
a third reporting situation is blended in after the other two .
rotwang tells mary .
included in his report , as a parallel action , is the activity about which rotwang is speaking .
like the group of rich sons in the dancehall , the group of workers in the catacombs , too , fall under the spell of the vamp .
like the evil character in a fairy tale , rotwang pretends his own child to be the one he keeps as a prisoner .
ufa regarded the " red " mary' s speech as " inciting " and ordered a milder form for the second version .
who wants to work himself to death for the rulers of metropolis ?
instead of ...
who is the life force of the machines of metropolis ?
who are the slaves of metropolis ?
let them rot ...
freder , who only had visions before , has gained a critical , perceiving view .
he sees through the double .
the adaptors found the construction with rotwang' s report as the framework around the second catacomb scene too complicated .
georgy' s martyrdom not only seals freder' s new role as a critical perceiver , but also shows him as a future saviour , as a new messiah .
the central square of the workers ' city has become a stage in the theatre of the revolution .
the first beats of the marseillaise .
not only the music is imbued with the character of a citation .
the way the false mary whips the crowd into a frenzy corresponds to her performance in front of the rich sons .
the gong podium is a tribune for the performance in which not only she takes part but an ecstatic ensemble .
the elevators .
earlier we saw the night shift advancing into the elevators for transportation into the depths ... now they are being stormed by men and women , who use them to go upwards .
in a later scene , the movement accelerated and reversed , we will see them empty crashing down .
in the beginning only men were present here , now we see women , the workers ' wives , female workers .
the face of the repressed masses " was male ; only with the uprising , " unleashed , does this face obtain female traits , does its female base appear , hitherto oppressed by organisation , control , discipline .
again the same venues as in the beginning , in reverse order and viewing direction .
at the start the workers , silently waiting for the raising of the grating now the unleashed mass , men and women , deliriously determined to blow it up .
the children , abandoned by their biological fathers and mothers , offered for adoption by mary , the maternal , and freder , the brother .
again two people , two venues , alternating , audio visually bound by the video telephone in fredersen' s office , control and command tool of the ruler of metropolis .
subordinate and superior .
back to the sounds of the marseillaise , the storming of the heart machine .
the true , the white , finally free to continue her reconciliation work ...
and the false , the red , the force behind uprising and destruction .
mary on her way to the city of the workers , to save the children abandoned by their fathers and mothers .
like a counter manoeuvre to her own creation by rotwang , as a light show , electric pyrotechnic sorcery , the false mary instigates the destruction of the heart machine ...
before leaving the stage via a back stairway , a shadow ascending a staircase , exit to another theatre , another audience , the sons of the rich .
arm movements as though in parody of the rotating of the disk , still identifying with the machine even during its destruction .
the elevators now finally descending , plunging .
the water .
it was said " , records the novel ,
deep under the city there wanders a stream . " joh fredersen constructed a path for the stream when he built the city of the workers .
it was also said that the stream was feeding a large reservoir and that there was a pumping station there , powerful enough , to fill or empty the reservoir in less than 10 hours .
the subterranean streams had been channelled , disciplined , obstructed by fredersen and coupled to the machines as had the people .
now the unleashed waters of the depths join the uprising of the humans .
we have seen rotwang working the levers in his laboratory and the other mary working the levers of the heart machine .
now she is moving the levers of the gong machine .
the gong podium , the alarm clock , the tribune hosting the revolt , is now used to save the children .
the square fills with the water and the children .
it is almost as if the children are involved in the flood , even though their own lives are in danger , as if they perceive the absence of adults and breaching of the banks as a liberation .
the upper city too has been robbed of electric light through the destruction of the heart machine , causing fredersen to reach for his flashlight ... to receive slim in its glow .
a couple of lovers ...
but more like a couple of parents , without act of procreation , through adoption , by saving the children , abandoned by their biological parents .
not just a couple , but three , a trinity , of which there soon will be more , with interchanging members .
they take care of the children , the innocent offspring of the workers , who have refused to be rescued by them .
a last climb through the airshaft from the depths of the workers ' city to the club of the sons .
the flying camera simulates the pressure of the explosion which rocks the city to its foundations .
finale with mary' s theme ...
general pause ... then again the theme of the uprising , men and women dancing in two concentric circles , as though still under the spell of the machines they destroyed .
fredersen' s office ...
fredersen , slim ... then the machine hall with the destroyed moloch machine ...
this question is musically answered ...
by a motif from the mechanical woman' s theme .
thirdly , the yoshiwara , where to a foxtrot the false mary
leads the sons of the rich to dance on the volcano .
the workers abandon the scene of action .
fourthly , the entrance of the club of the sons ,
with freder .
here , a shot with mary has been cut by the adaptors .
and the children .
a square beneath this one , which the workers , ascending from the machine halls , have reached .
and finally , fifthly , rotwang' s attic room , where fredersen' s down and out opponent recovers .
this plot of interwoven strands again proved too complicated for the adaptors , they rearranged , they condensed .
they edited the film , giving the impression that the false mary is the only victim of the witch hunt and that the true mary is in no danger .
by readjusting this shot the true mary becomes the other .
only when you carefully look , you see here !
mary running across the screen escaping from her pursuers , who manage to couple her double .
fittingly , the workers construct a stake in front of the cathedral .
the stake is made from metal , the wrecks of cars , partly with their headlights illuminated .
the false mary tied to the stake .
she who was created by electrical sparks , totally in her element , in a display of masochistic lust .
josaphat and freder separated .
rotwang had awakened , it says in the novel ,
but he knew he had died .
and this realisation filled him with the deepest satisfaction .
he only wanted his hel .
upon finding hel he would no longer have reason to quarrel with anything on earth .
hel " , he says in the novel .
i am not a ghost , although i have died , i had to die to come to you .
mary , the virgin , and her double , both in mortal danger , a mirror image in one scene .
the red mary at the stake , the white in the cathedral , pursued by rotwang .
the bells of the cathedral come to her aid ...
beckoning the saviour ,
like the gong before in the workers ' city .
as freder watches , the fire burns away the flesh of the false mary revealing her mechanical core , musically triumphant , accompanied by one of the mechanical woman motifs in vibrant major .
the scene on the cathedral roof is reminiscent of victor hugo' s
hunchback of notre dame " .
the novel had recently been filmed with lon chaney .
the gargoyles .
after the demise of the evil half of the female double pair , the final battle between the two male rivals is enacted on the roof of the cathedral .
freder , the naive fool , has learnt through his passion to differentiate between truth and lies .
then in the face of the needs of the children he has ripened to an active person , now he is capable of dealing with his antagonist .
fredersen kneeling ... he too maturing through suffering .
slim and josaphat another antagonistic pair unite to offer him assistance .
and finally grot , the foreman , less class conscious than loyal to his rulers .
in pynchon' s " gravity' s rainbow " , pkler remembers how rotwang carried mary onto the roof of the cathedral .
he was " taken by klein rogge playing the mad inventor , who he himself and his fellow students would have loved to be .
indispensable to those who ran the metropolis , yet at the end the untameable lion who could let it all crash , girl , state , masses , himself , asserting his reality against them all in one last roaring plunge from rooftop to street " , so remembers pkler .
in harbou' s novel the chastened fredersen finds comfort with his mother , who does not appear in the film , she gives him a letter from his dead wife who pledges her love throughout all eternity .
mary , fredersen' s mother , hel .
in harbou' s screenplay , mary acting on an appeal from the workers ' wives calls on freder to be a mediator .
in the film as shot by lang , the women retreat totally into the underground and background .
the women retreat totally into the underground and background .
the mediator theme .
the workers , as at the beginning of the film , disciplined , darkly clothed and uniformed , marching in unison in triangular formation , the loyal foreman at the vanguard , ascend the steps at the cathedral to meet the triumvirate awaiting them in the portal .
the mediator theme culminates in a combination of the mary and the metropolis themes .
the rest is dealt with by the chiefs , the representatives of state and people , of capital and labour .
the social partners still require mutual trust .
they need a mediator , removed from the parties ' interests .
mary , as a woman is permitted to deliver the cue ,
thus completing her task .
a male trinity analogous to the father , the son and the holy spirit has been formed .
metropolis is a film of superlatives also insofar as no other film provoked as much criticism , analysis and interpretation , at least not since the nineteen eighties , simultaneously and in conjunction with new versions , new recordings , reconstruction attempts , and allusions to this film in new ones .
the film , its metaphors , its allegory require interpretation .
the interpretation is part of the film' s story , even if contradictory , bizarre and excessive .
there is no need to believe or accept any of them , but they should be acknowledged as this is one of the pleasures the film offers , which are unthinkable without a certain degree of light hearted detachment .
the commentary you have heard was compiled by enno patalas , read by david cooke , notes on the music have been provided by rainer fabich .
vlcomedla 10/ 2002
