someone from senator eleanor shaw' s office called and intervened on your behalf .
major , you' ve reached the terminal end of the army' s patience .
you' re relieved of duty , effective immediately .
yes , sir .
ben , there is a young neurologist at walter reed .
his name is zahn .
he' s had real success with gulf war syndrome .
you are instructed to get your affairs in order and report to him first thing monday morning .
i thought you said you lost it .
i bit a guy .
i found another one .
these are not supposed to exist .
these are only theoretical .
so , what does it do ?
i don' t know .
you don' t know ?
i don' t know .
i don' t wanna know .
you don' t wanna know .
look , it' s out of you and you are still alive .
that' s the good news .
what' s the bad news ?
maybe they know you' re here .
you said the army implants , they were for emergency medical data , right ?
the ones they publicized were .
there was a parallel project for all kinds of scary implantables .
the clinton watchdogs finally freaked out about it , closed down .
parallel project ?
how did you know about that ?
manchurian global funded me to make some of their scary shit .
heard of them ?
lmagine not just a corporation , marco , but a goddamn geopolitical extension of policy for every president since nixon .
cash is king , marco .
cash is king .
you sure you wanna do this ?
absolutely .
because i don' t .
i' il owe you one .
no .
i still owe you .
for getting me out of albania .
albania .
what are you doing ?
in case i forget things i wanna remember .
i' m putting you on a cocktail of methohexitol to take the edge off .
the edge off of what ?
getting clarity .
or whatever you wanna call it .
ect not being the precise science that , say ,
leeching is .
you don' t think this is gonna work ?
it' s a desperation move , man .
but , hey , there is a school of thought that says a victim of induced abreaction ...
here it comes .
the night is clear .
stars , but no moon .
the patrol is ambushed .
we were on a routine recon inside iraqi controlled terrain , assessing troop strength ...
captain marco was knocked unconscious .
in the ensuing firefight , eddie ingram gets himself separated to the left .
baker goes after him .
hello , captain .
before sergeant shaw is able to locate ...
eddie ingram gets himself separated to the left .
did you go blank on me again ?
he said this would happen .
who ?
your german friend .
your friend .
ben .
he said it' d be like a computer system crash .
that your brain would shut down , but it would reboot again and you' d forget all your ram .
or most of your ram .
do you remember me ?
do you remember me ?
ben ?
eugenie .
how did i get here ?
you called me .
where am i ?
planning a suicide bombing .
the mile high city has suffered a series of brutal attacks during the past several months .
senator eleanor prentiss shaw , does it bother you at all that your son repudiates so many of your more
controversial policies ?
no .
he' s his own person .
raymond and i may disagree on certain issues , but i think we share the same fundamental vision of what this country can be .
which is ?
better .
better and better .
safer , braver , stronger .
a beacon of freedom in a world troubled by shadows .
america must prevail .
the future and survival of modern civilization , democracy , freedom , all depend upon it .
so your son , congressman shaw ...
rosie .
i was in the park on friday ?
we were in the park on monday .
monday ?
yep .
monday .
we were flying low .
it' s , like , over the ocean , and just ...
a field hospital .
and they took us up to this place .
where ?
military ?
i don' t know .
i don' t know .
just state of the art stuff everywhere .
stainless steel and wires and tubes and monitors .
were you tortured ?
no .
yeah .
i mean , there was pain .
you know , it was like ...
i don' t know what they call it .
invasive procedure .
for example ?
like what ?
what do you mean ?
invasive .
see , they were in my head ... ... and they made me ...
well , raymond shaw , they made him kill somebody .
like it was nothing .
private robert baker .
that' s who it was , it was a private .
one of my soldiers .
i think they made me kill somebody too .
a kid named eddie ingram .
private ingram , stand up .
walk a few steps , please .
and if you could secure the door , please , chris .
captain marco .
stand up .
raymond .
yes , sir .
there' s a gun on the cupboard .
would you please take it and give it to captain marco .
yes , sir .
here .
captain .
captain marco , please shoot private ingram .
now , raymond , suffocate private baker .
kill him .
keep going , raymond .
i knew the ...
a soldier knows the enemy .
i' m in command .
that' s primary , i know .
i thought i knew ... ... who the enemy was .
my men , they trusted me with their lives , you know ?
don' t .
don' t touch me .
ben , the person that did this , what was his name ?
can you remember ?
did he have a name ?
ben ?
smile if you like .
this will just take a minute .
i see you there all the time .
bennett marco .
checks from first national bank .
romance novels , instant noodles , nodoz and tomatoes .
old friend up there , an old army friend that ...
well , he' s in politics now ...
what else did we talk about ?
what happened to you after you were captured ?
black helicopters , secret laboratories ...
... mad scientist , mind drugs ... ... shock torture and raymond shaw .
you don' t believe any of it , do you ?
it' s crazy .
it sounds crazy , doesn' t it ?
it sounds crazy .
that' s what they wanted me to think too .
it' s exactly what they want you to think .
what about the other guys from your unit ?
where are they ?
they' re all gone .
so called natural causes .
owens died of cancer in ' 97 .
villalobos ' car crashed .
atkins committed suicide .
jameson died 9/ 11 , pentagon .
ben ?
yeah ?
did he have a name ?
who ?
the person that did this , ben .
what was his name ?
can you remember ?
ben .
yeah ?
did he have a name ?
you only have to look at the enormous strides made in the last decade with the genetic reconfiguration of the noble tomato .
what was happening was the tomato was over ripening in the process and it was losing its flavor .
it' s actually a very simple procedure to deactivate the gene concerned .
and the same thing can be applied to ourselves .
at a flick of a switch , we can adjust character , change personality .
and of course , more importantly ... ... we can offset the ravages of dementia by implanting memory or adjusting the synaptic connections .
we can free people from the terrible burden of an emotionally compromised past .
watch where you' re going !
sorry .
watch where you' re going !
just back up !
just back up .
watch it .
watch it .
shut up .
take it easy , sir .
i called the pentagon and they told me he' s on medical leave .
secret service , they got him on a couple of their watch and observe lists .
i guess there' s been some trouble with this guy involving congressman shaw .
oh ?
among the shareholders in manchurian global , were they to ever publish a list , which they won' t , you would find former presidents , deposed kings , trust fund terrorists , fallen communist dictators , ayatollahs , african warlords and retired prime ministers .
see what i mean ?
i get it .
they' re big .
they' re huge .
they' re ...
they' re ...
they' re gigantic .
i can' t touch them .
i get it .
i don' t want to .
and you bring me rumors and conjecture .
i started with nightmares .
rumors , conjectures , that' s a giant leap forward .
nightmares that you' ve interpreted using as primary resources
a , your spotty memory ,
b , the internet , sacred sanctuary of idiots and nutters .
that' s how they' re gonna look at this .
and c , a crazy man' s notebook , along with evidence you chewed out of a man' s back .
all neatly stitched together with a common thread of a supremely powerful , well connected private equity fund , who , if you ever get anywhere near them , will plead ignorance and be shocked .
shocked to learn what some of their subsidiary partners are engaged in .
i could give a rat' s ass about manchurian global , sir .
i could give a rat' s ass about them .
that is not why i' m here .
i looked you up too , senator .
oh ?
you were in the army .
i was drafted .
didn' t make much of a soldier , i' m afraid .
let me see this .
that' s not what i saw in the record .
that' s not what the record says , sir .
and you know how it works .
wars are fought one battle at a time .
battles , you win one bullet at a time .
and i' d be lying to you if i said that i didn' t factor in , in a huge way , the fact that you have a vested , personal , political and patriotic interest in how all of this shakes out .
i' d be lying to you .
you' re right , major .
i do .
a $5, 000 a plate dinner honoring the ceo of votron incorporated , the nation' s third largest producer of the controversial touch screen units that will be used in the forthcoming election , was disrupted last night , when protestors disguised as waiters and kitchen staff unleashed a blizzard of symbolic chants from above , resulting in a momentary panic .
the supporters of presidential hopeful vice president edward nelson fled to exits and dove under tables .
security personnel quickly subdued the protestors , one of whom ...
the man is insane , tom .
full blown schizophrenia .
he' s been stalking raymond , the fbi is all over this already .
i' ve seen the files .
have you seen them ?
all over what ?
your bipolar war buddy has been sharing his dreams with senator jordan .
hello , raymond .
hello , senator .
how' s jocelyn ?
have you fact checked this with anyone , tom ?
raymond .
do you recognize this man ?
no .
his name is atticus noyle .
he' s a south african scientist and mercenary .
someone our cla turned to for covert mind warfare against the soviets in afghanistan .
someone who has sold his technology and services to terrorists and rogue states .
and what does he have to do with me ?
major bennett marco claims that this man ... ... brainwashed you .
in his dreams .
contrived to have you win the medal of honor .
and has you poised to be the first privately owned and operated vice president of the united states .
sir , i' ve already spoken with ben marco .
unfortunately , he' s not a well man .
he' s delusional .
nevertheless , he' s pulled from his mad hat some remarkably lucid connections between his dreams of your exploits in kuwait and this dr. noyle and the private equity fund manchurian global , your mother' s primary political benefactor for the past 15 years .
oh , come on , tom .
they contribute to half the senate .
both sides of the aisle .
what are you saying ?
at the time of desert storm , dr. atticus noyle was working under a research grant from manchurian global , developing deep implant behavior modification .
oh , my god .
rogue scientists , mind control , manchurian global .
you .
tom .
connect the dots , raymond .
where was your famous lost patrol for those three missing days ?
eluding capture in the desert ?
or somewhere else , being microwaved by this atticus noyle ?
oh , tom .
i' m sorry , senator , but what exactly are you suggesting i do ?
bow out gracefully .
personal reasons , an obscure illness .
yield your spot on the ticket and go into seclusion .
oh , that' s what this is about .
and then surrender yourself to federal authorities .
help them trace this thing to its source and address whatever damage may have been done to you .
and i' il be waiting for your press announcement first thing in the morning .
and then we' il talk .
tom .
if there' s any inkling of truth in any of these charges , if anyone has ever harmed a hair on his head ,
i will find out about it .
you have 12 hours , senator .
but if it' s not true ,
i will see you impeached on the floor of the senate and bury you .
good night .
it' s preposterous .
idiotic story .
mother , there' s something i have to tell you .
what ?
i' ve been having the dreams .
ben said there were tests they could run to see if ...
no .
where are you going ?
sergeant shaw .
what ?
sergeant raymond shaw .
mother , i ...
raymond prentiss shaw .
yes .
listen .
good morning to you all , and welcome to amtrak' s northbound acela , making station stops at baltimore , philadelphia ,
newark , new york' s penn station and boston as the last stop ...
who' s that ?
it' s raymond , sir .
oh , don' t do that .
you' re gonna get soaking wet , raymond .
raymond .
i came to apologize , sir .
raymond , what are you doing ?
i' m sorry .
we' il get some help for you , son .
it' s not your fault , raymond .
it' s not your fault .
i' m sorry , sir .
it' s your mother ...
dad !
help !
oh , god .
daddy !
help !
raymond ?
what are you doing ? !
what is going on ?
what is happening ?
where' s my father ?
what are you doing ?
dad !
dad !
the five term senator and recent front runner for his party' s vice presidential nomination appears to have accidentally drowned when his kayak overturned near his chesapeake bay weekend home .
police say his daughter , 35 year old jocelyn , may have been trying to rescue jordan when she was herself overcome by the icy water .
the bodies of senator jordan and his daughter were discovered this morning by a crab fisherman who spotted the capsized kayak floating far offshore , nearly a mile from senator jordan' s residence .
neighbors say the senator was an expert kayaker whose morning trips were a familiar sight along the western bank of the bay .
governor arthur , do you have any comment on this tragic event ?
senator jordan was a statesman of the highest integrity .
tom jordan was a friend .
a damn fine man .
just a great american .
that' s all for now .
we' il have something for you a little later .
they' re the latest target of sec corruption probes , but private equity fund manchurian global confirmed today it is continuing with plans to finance privately owned combat units to relieve beleaguered u. s. troop deployments worldwide .
it is a move that could save the defense department billions of dollars .
how does arthur die ?
you know who i' m talking about , the new president .
if he dies , raymond shaw becomes the new president , doesn' t he ?
chain of succession .
that' s what you got in mind .
that' s what you people wanna do .
you wanna really run the world , don' t you , susie ?
rosie ?
whatever the hell your name is .
i got my library card and i got your tapes .
i do my research too .
we' re going to the feds , we' re going to the police , the newspapers , whatever it takes .
i am the feds .
now , get off me !
get off of me !
we found ... ... an implant device ... ... in al melvin .
you found one in melvin .
just like you said .
i' m part of a shadow unit .
we' ve been watching you .
trying to sort this thing out .
this isn' t an election , this is a coup .
this is ...
in our own country , a regime change , in our own country .
ben , don' t .
ben .
this is rich people , manchurian global funding bad science to put a sleeper in the white house , and that' s what' s going on , rosie .
that' s what' s going on .
i wanna believe you .
well , then , believe me .
help me .
help me .
shoot me , then .
help me or shoot me .
make a decision .
make a decision .
i made a decision when i met you , ben .
now , why don' t you show me what you have in your file .
sir !
congressman !
sir , do you have a statement for us tonight ?
was exceptionally clear and simple .
a stronger , safer , more profitable world through uncorruptible top level management .
we trust you with our technology and suddenly you turn him into a common hit man .
how fucking dare you .
i trusted you with my son .
you didn' t even ask us ...
don' t lecture me !
you swore to me that this was fail safe .
no leaks , no glitches , no ...
no dreams .
not even a shadow of what was done to raymond ...
you needed to ask before you acted .
this is not a ...
tom jordan was going to destroy my son and everything i' ve worked for , and every one of us along with it .
and you wanted me to what ?
call a meeting ?
now , look , look , look .
in the larger course of history ... ... there are key players ... ... and role players , senator .
bullshit !
this is about my son and the future of this country .
i thought we understood each other .
i think we do .
i think we really do .
your god is money .
oh , wait , wait , and yours is ... ?
no , no .
i' m a believer .
i am an optimist .
i believe in the future .
and people who do , the ones who make history instead of just sitting around watching it , no , they' re willing to take the big risks .
yes , i made a decision .
oh , god !
where are all the men anymore ?
my father , tyler prentiss , never asked ,
is this okay ?
is this okay ?
you know what i' m saying , mark ?
he just did what needed to be done .
come on , rise and shine , new york .
it' s a big day in the big apple .
that' s right .
all polls indicate that new yorkers will be turning out in record numbers today across the five boroughs to select a new president .
at least , that' s how the billboard says it' s supposed to happen .
the polls open at 6 a . m .
and bars and taverns in manhattan , brooklyn , queens , the bronx , and staten island will be opening shortly thereafter .
that' s right , new yorkers .
we are free to drink and vote all day today .
thank you .
thank you .
thanks for coming out .
congressman , good luck .
hello .
hi .
hey .
thank you very much .
the next vice president , sir .
i hope so .
let' s have a win .
we' re with you .
we' re with you .
thank you , tony , take care .
thank you .
take care .
goodbye .
thanks very much .
it' s clean .
it' s clean .
it' s all right , evan .
how' s your back ?
i' ve been having the dreams , ben .
oh , that' s good .
they' re inside my head .
we' il get them out .
i got the proof .
i know what they did to us .
i just don' t know why .
i dream things , ben .
terrible things that can' t possibly have happened .
i' m gone , ben ...
no , you' re not , you' re right here .
ben ... ... there' s something i want you to have .
i don' t deserve this .
jocelyn' s dead .
i know .
and the senator .
yeah .
did i ... ?
i think so , raymond , yes .
i don' t remember , ben .
i don' t remember .
raymond ... ... did they tell you what it is they want you to do ?
that' s what i gotta find out .
we gotta find out what' s gonna happen , where it' s gonna happen ...
are we friends , ben ?
i wanna believe we were friends .
we are connected and that' s something nobody can take from us .
you could' ve had me locked up , but you didn' t .
that' s proof that there' s something deep inside .
there' s a part that they can' t get to .
and it' s deep inside of us .
and that' s where the truth is .
that' s our only hope .
that' s what you and me need to tap into , and that' s what you and i are gonna use to take them out , raymond .
we don' t have much time .
please .
i thought you were smarter than that .
raymond , please .
you don' t think they saw this coming , ben ?
you don' t think they factored you in ?
i am the enemy , major marco .
what are you talking about ?
yes , mother .
yes , he' s right here .
she wants you .
me ?
yes , senator .
is this captain marco ?
yeah .
captain bennett marco ?
yes .
bennett ezekiel marco .
yes .
listen .
hurry up !
major marco ?
ben ?
people can get together whenever they want and not get in trouble .
people should be allowed to say what is on their mind ...
the bill of rights gives people ...
thank you .
the candidates made ritual trips to the voting booths today .
governor arthur , casting his ballot in north platte , will spend election night in the big apple with running mate raymond shaw for their anticipated victory party .
the presidential rival , incumbent vice president nelson returned to his home in baton rouge , louisiana .
he attended special church services this morning ...
all clear .
raymond ...
clear . ... listen .
the bullet will strike bob arthur the moment you step forward and arrive on your star beside him .
because the assassin ... ... the deranged , obsessed ... ... tragically paranoid lone gunman ... ... is trying to kill you .
major marco' s an excellent marksman .
but you must stay very , very still and stand right where you' re supposed to stand .
what happens to ben ?
the assassin always dies , baby .
it' s necessary for the national healing .
i' m sure you will never entirely comprehend this , darling .
but i want you to know , raymond ... ... i did this for you .
so that you could have what i couldn' t .
what your father threw away .
the opportunity to lead this nation .
i know , mother .
and so i let them take you and change you a little bit .
not so much that you would notice , but just enough to bring you back to who you really are .
and to what you will become .
oh , and look at you .
look at you .
look what you' ve achieved ,
look how far we' ve come .
it' s working , raymond .
and you' re going to save our country now .
in the hour of her greatest need .
yes , mother .
but ...
but when you smile ... ... oh , darling , when you smile , that' s what i live for .
when you smile .
well , it' s official .
cbs news now projects
robert arthur and raymond shaw to be the next president and vice president of the united states .
with at least 270 electoral votes and support of almost 70 percent of votes tallied tonight .
arthur and running mate raymond shaw are leading in all but one remaining race , in the sitting vice president' s home state of louisiana .
wait , jimmy .
jimmy , wait .
wait .
go back .
can you go back ?
yeah .
stop .
sure .
now , can you zoom in on that guy ?
yep .
no , no , jimmy , the other one .
the one in the back .
the one in the shades .
this one ?
yeah , yeah , yeah .
never mind .
thanks , jimmy .
arthur !
that' s right !
arthur !
arthur !
we did it .
wow .
yeah !
all right !
yes !
yes .
hi .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you .
let' s have a good show , people .
let' s have a really good show , okay ?
arthur !
arthur !
arthur !
arthur !
cue screens .
very good .
stand by with the first music cue .
now , music .
okay .
damn it .
shaw missed his first position .
aop !
aop !
up there !
ben !
ben !
all right .
bye .
the fbi has just released security footage of the assassin of raymond and eleanor prentiss shaw entering the hotel two hours before the fatal shooting .
authorities have identified the gunman as klaus bachmann .
bachmann was believed to have been killed in a car bomb explosion in chechnya four years ago .
he was employed there as a covert operation specialist by global endeavors , a u. k. subsidiary of the equity fund giant manchurian global .
a second former manchurian global civilian contractor was taken into custody by federal agents at chicago' s o' hare airport early this morning .
laurence tokar made news during the gulf war for his presence on raymond shaw' s famed lost patrol .
tokar was missing in action after the ambush that resulted in shaw being awarded the congressional medal of honor .
authorities are exploring additional connections between the two men .
still reeling from the recent tragic loss of senator thomas jordan ,
congress has already announced a far reaching investigation into jordan' s death , in an effort to learn if it is in any way related to the shaw assassinations .
in a supercharged encounter moments ago , president elect arthur ...
i remember running .
i had to ... ... get out ... ... to where the sky was .
and had to ... ... get to the water .
escape .
regroup .
come back , get my men .
i thought that if i could just get to the water ... ... everything would be okay .
if i could just get to the water .
now , when you' re rescued and returned with your patrol to command headquarters , what will be among the first of your duties that you' il undertake ?
i' il recommend sergeant shaw for the medal of honor , sir .
he saved our lives .
he terminated the enemy .
led us across the desert to safety .
excellent .
and there were casualties ?
there' s always casualties in war , sir .
text ripp & fix killbear666
