the navy ... wantedtohearmystory .
theysaidlowedit to the dead to tell them the truth .
i told them where tostick the truth .
i' m the last one who knows ... what killed the men aboard that submarine , who knows it was a suicide mission .
but i' il burn in hell before i tell the murderers who sent us there .
that' s why we' ve comehere all the way from washington , sailor , to hearyour story , to make sure thatjustice is served .
you said that afteryour outburst , the x. o. , johansen , locked you up with your captain .
johansen did what he had to .
that' s war .
some are sacrificed so that others can live .
you' ve gotta get us out ofhere !
let go !
but when thatdoorshut ,
iknewmylife , allourlives , hadjustbeensacrificed . johansen !
open this door !
open this door ! johansen !
forthe fiirst time , wesawthe enemy that waskilling us .
that thing ... was causing theslow , painful deaths .
and i prayed one ofthejapanese depth charges would finish thejob .
you called this thing " the enemy .
you' re saying it was an entity ofsome sort ?
the navysays we weresent torecoverana bomb , that' s why wegot all theseburns .
give me a freakin ' break .
whatever it was , we were sent to guard it .
this was what exposed the crew to radiation ?
before it slithered away , back to where it came from , back into the sea , back into who knows what .
that thing ... is still down there !
the navy' il denyit , butyou' ve got to make sure the truth gets out .
i can trustyou to do that , can' t i , mr. mulder ?
you can trust all ofus .
excuse me .
i' m looking forwalter skinner .
he was brought in with a gunshot wound .
agentscully .
agent fuller .
this is agent caleca .
we got the call from the d. c. police .
how bad is he ?
we don' t know .
he' s been in surgery .
what happened ?
hothead drew a gun .
skinner happened to be in the way .
what doyou have on the shooter ?
a description .
a handgun was recovered in the parking lot , unregistered , no prints .
our guys got two partials offthe cash register .
hair and fiber ?
this happened a few hours ago .
this is the assistant director who' s been shot .
we have to make all resources available .
excuse me .
how is he ?
he came out ofsurgery all right , but he' s in pain .
i' ve seen him before , the man who shot me .
give me the key .
when we get there .
i want to make sure we get there together .
give it to me .
what' s " c. i. " mean ?
when we get there .
how' s he doing ?
he' s on steady demerol .
he' s in and out .
i thought i asked for guards to be posted outside .
we put in a request .
this wasn' t a random shooting .
i want guards posted here , and i want them here now .
it' s a matter ofpulling men offsomething else .
i' ve heard the excuses .
i don' t care ifyou and agent caleca have to stand out in the hallwayyourselves .
this man has to be protected , okay ?
i thinkwe' re being followed .
a dark sedan with its lights off .
it wasparkedon theshoulder abouthalfamileback .
speedup .
speed up .
get out .
get out .
where' s the digital tape ?
i don' t have it .
hey , areyouallright ?
i got a messageyou called .
goodmorning .
we found something i knew you' d want to see a. s. a. p. on the shooter ?
yeah .
the partial prints we pulled from the cash register didn' t add up to anything , but we found saliva on skinner' s shirt that wasn' t his .
this is an analysis ofthe secretors and other hemofactors .
which tells us we' re looking for a male , probably in his 40s with blood type b positive .
we already know all that from the waitress' s description .
there' s more .
we were able to chromosome stain the hair fibers we picked up last night .
we still gotta find the guy before we can get a match .
we canrunhis indicators ... againstallsuspectsarrestedin the d. c. areain thelastcoupleyears .
that takes too much time .
you know what ?
run it anyway .
can i borrow this for a little while ?
go ahead .
thanks .
wepickedhim up lastnight .
theburnsaresomatic , caused by close proximity radiation exposure .
same as the french sailors aboard that salvage ship .
identical .
what' s the prognosis ?
it' sjust a matter oftime .
this kind ofabsorption will have a rapid effect on cellular activity , giving rise to the onset ofmassive and malignant cancers .
has anyone been in to see these men ?
no .
yourorders were toisolate them .
butl think weshouldget aspecialistinherebecause , frankly , i' veneverseen anything like thisbefore .
i have .
doyou know what caused this ?
have the bodies destroyed .
but but , sir , these men aren' t dead yet .
isn' t that the prognosis ?
guess i' m not dead .
what happened ?
maybeyou could tell me .
the state police found you unconscious .
you were strapped in the passenger' s seat ofa rental car ... that had been driven into a ditch .
we were run offthe road by two men .
who' s " we " ?
krycek .
krycek ?
he was in hong kong .
he' s got the digital tape .
he' s been selling information .
is that what the men wanted ?
they ordered him out ofthe car .
i thought theywere gonna kill him .
i thought theywere gonna kill us both .
and then there was this bright fash .
that' s all i remember .
well , it may not be the best time to tell you , but ... you' re not the only one in the hospital .
skinner' s been shot .
what' s his condition ?
a bullet perforated his small intestine .
the doctor seems to think he' il be fine .
who shot him ?
i' m notsure .
but i have an idea .
what are those ?
p. c. r. results .
this one belongs to the man who shot skinner .
yeah , and who does this one belong to ?
the man who shot melissa .
you may all be wondering why i' ve called you here on such short notice .
we' ve received disturbing reports from our intelligence sources .
a french salvage vessel came into san diego , its crew all dying of radiation exposure .
its last given position was the site where we recovered the u. f. o.
how could they have got information about that location ?
we haven' t been able to determine that .
the frenchgovernment has deniedanyinvolvement .
well , they got those coordinates somehow .
it seems we have an information leak , gentlemen .
has our associate in washington looked into this ?
apparently , hehas respondedto thesituation ... in a way that i don' t think any ofus would have anticipated .
how doyou mean ?
i don' t have all the details yet , but i' ve asked him to come here and explain it himself .
hi .
how areyou feeling ?
like someone' s been inside my stomach redecorating .
what haveyou turned up on the shooter ?
we' ve determined that the man who shot you is the same man who shot my sister .
i betyou had to work to get that , huh ?
yes , i did .
you don' t seem surprised .
three men came to see me a few days ago .
they warnedmeaboutpursuing yoursister' smurderinvestigation .
doyou realize whatyou' re saying , sir ?
i' m not advancing any conspiracy theory here , scully .
you' re saying they closed down my sister' s case ... not because oflack ofevidence , but because they didn' t want us to catch the killer .
you should be very careful about the accusations thatyou make .
the man who shotyou you said thatyou' d seen him before .
several months ago , he was one ofthe men who attacked me ... in the stairwell , with krycek .
he was working with krycek ?
they' re the ones who stole the digital tape from me .
damnit !
krycek .
mulder had him .
listen tome .
anger is a luxury thatyou cannot afford right now .
ifyou' reangry , you' regonnamakeamistake , andthesepeople will takeadvantage ofthat .
you' ve seen how they operate .
i' il be okay .
scully
ifyou can' t keepyour head , it' s all right to step away .
that' s exactly what theywant .
' addendum to casenumber621517 .
in theabsence ofanyoffiicialresponse ... tomyrequest tohave mysister' s casereopened ,
iam nowpetitioning to devote fullbureauresources ... to thesearch foralex krycek .
sinceagentmulder' s release from thehospital , wehavehadnosuccess locating krycek ... orthe twomenhe described ashisabductors .
personally , lbelieve krycek is thekeytoidentifying ... thelargerforces behindthe crime weare investigating .
healone canname theman whoshotmysister ... andexplain thestrangeradiation deaths aboard the frenchsalvage vessel .
itlookedgreatonme in thestore .
what' s this doing here ?
i had it fown in from san diego as evidence .
evidence ofwhat ?
the suit was covered in a thin film ofoil , as was the french diverwhen i found him lying delirious on his kitchen foor .
what kind ofoil ?
from the reports i' m getting , it' s the same substance ... that was found on the french diver' s wife when she was discovered ... on the foor ofa hong kong airport bathroom a few days ago .
according to the analysis , it' s 50 weight diesel oil , scully .
according to the analysis , it' s 50 weight diesel oil , scully .
that' s thesame oil usedon world waril submarinesandon p 51 mustangs .
i don' t understand .
this oil is not only 50 years old , scully , but its composition has been altered by exposure to radiation .
i still don' t understand .
how did this get onto the diver and then onto the diver' s wife ?
i don' t think this isjust ordinary diesel oil , scully .
i think it' s , uh
i think it' s a medium .
a medium being used by some kind ofalien creature that uses it to ... bodyjump .
soyou' re saying this stuff has intelligence .
i think that it came offof whatever they pulled from the bottom ofthe pacific ocean .
it' s been waiting down there for 50 years for another host , another body to bring it up to the surface .
waiting tojump into the diver and then into the diver' s wife .
and then to krycek .
krycek ?
i think that mrs. gauthierwent to hong kong under the control ofthis thing to find krycek
i know i know how it sounds .
is anybody not looking for krycek ?
no , but i think the $64, 000 question is , what is this thing looking for ?
and now that it' s in krycek , what does it want ?
blue danube " ]
nothin ' to it .
you should call upon our services more often .
we show a talent for these g man activities .
you mean ifl want somebody whacked on the knee with a lead pipe ?
only ifyou want thejob done right .
it' s gone .
grenade !
where is it ?
i' ve been expecting you .
put that down !
i have whatyou want .
you made us wait .
there was a weather delay on the shuttle from washington .
you had business there ?
yes .
you , uh , may have already heard .
we' ve heard you acted on your own ... and moved the salvaged u. f. o. to another location .
these new attempts to recover it have increased our need for security .
who else is looking for it ?
in the event , i moved it as a safeguard .
somebody better damn well find out how the french even knew where to look for it .
i can assureyou it' il be absolutely inaccessible now .
why not bring it to nevada , like the others ?
leaks in security and a heightened public interest have made nevada unviable .
is this why i was called here ?
no .
we' d like an explanation about this business ... with the assistant director ofthe bureau , skinner .
random shooting , for all i know .
they have a waitress who' s given a description ofthe shooter .
theyreleaseda composite ofhis face to thepress .
one ofyours , isn' the ?
i don' t know what to tell you .
ifhe did , he acted on his own .
good lord .
this is a very serious exposure for us .
i' il take care ofit .
my advice toyou , sir , is to understand the priorities here .
get thisshooteroutofthe country as quicklyaspossible .
ifthe assistant director l . d. ' s him , ourwell placed operatives won' t be able to stand in the way ofan arrest , compromisingbeyondrepair thesecrecyofour work ... and the security , as you so arrogantly assert , ofour project' s future .
it' il be handled .
i' ve got something here : writing .
somebodywrote on top ofthe package and left an impression .
let me see that .
your guys at the f. b. i .... turnedamajorserialmurderer witha vestigialpenimpression .
it does look like something .
your sci crime guys at the bureau have a laser there ... that can measure any change in a surface down to a few nanometers .
they canliftaperfect impression usingmagnetic toner andasheetofmylar .
an electrostatic device is appliedto thespecimen andrenders theinformation ... by drawing the toner from the indentations to the mylar surface .
actually  actually , it' s a phone number .
new york cityarea code , 555 1012 .
now , don' t drop that .
that' s a finely calibrated piece ofinvestigative equipment .
i gotta make a phone call .
i' il be damned .
yes .
no .
this is a private line .
you must have misdialed .
no .
there' sno onehere to takeyour call .
i' m sorry .
i can' t helpyou .
please hold on .
who is this ?
who is this ?
who gaveyou this number ?
you probably know him .
a man named krycek .
alex krycek ?
yeah .
nice guy .
killed my father .
you wouldn' t happen to know where he is , doyou ?
it' s mr. mulder , isn' t it ?
it' s so nice ofyou to remember .
mr. mulder , can we meet somewhere ?
oh , i would love to .
giveyour phone number to my assistant .
he' il call you back in five minutes .
tell him i' il meet him in three hours in central park , near the lighted walkway off79th , near the reservoir .
when you hang up , have this number disconnected .
well , we got a name to go with the face .
beautiful .
hisnameis luis cardinal , native of nicaragua , school ofthe americas alumni , career mercenary , apparently impressed a lot ofpeople ... with his marksmanship during the lran contra deal .
i' il bet .
that' s actually the good news .
whatdoyoumean ?
he entered the country without a visa or papers .
we can' t find anything on him : address , phone number , financials , nothing .
does he have an alias ?
several .
none checked out either .
inaillikelihood , thisguy' salreadyoutofthe country .
damn it .
they think they canjust get awaywith it .
i wish i could tell you otherwise .
keep looking for him .
we' ve ... pretty much exhausted our avenues .
what' s it gonna take ?
at this point ?
other than a sign from god ?
i' ve seen stranger things , believe me .
i believe she has .
i trust we' re alone .
we' re all alone in new york city , sir .
you' re looking foralex krycek , to kill him ... in revenge .
what makes you think we haven' t done that already ?
what for ?
tell me whatyou know , and i' il consider giving you krycek .
no .
you answer a few questions for me first ,
iike what was pulled offthe bottom ofthe pacific ocean .
it was a u. f. o. , a so called foo fighter ... downed byamerican fighter pilots in the second world war .
left there until now ?
there were salvage attempts .
a u. s. sub was sent in 50 years ago , but there were complications .
almost the entire crew died .
yes .
it' s still a mystery .
a mystery to whom ?
the cover story said it was the third a bomb bound forjapan .
but the truth is , no one knows what killed that crew .
i know .
doyou , now ?
you give me krycek , and i' il tell you .
mr. mulder ,
i' ve given you so much this evening .
you' ve offered me next to nothing in return .
you haven' t told me anything i didn' t already know .
i' m curious .
ifyou' ve encountered krycek , why didn' tyou kill him then ?
' cause he has the tape .
ah , yes , the tape .
the tape he' s been selling those secrets off .
you don' t know where he is either , doyou ?
you' re looking for him too .
mr. mulder , anyone can be gotten to .
certainly , you' ve no doubt ofthat .
mr. mulder !
scully .
scully , it' s me .
those two guards you had posted outside skinner' s room .
are they still there ?
they should be .
why ?
i wantyou to get down there and double check for me , okay ?
i got it covered , mulder .
just get down there and check , okay ?
nurse , what happened to the guards who were outside this room ?
they' ve left .
where ?
and what happened to the man in this room ?
mr. skinner' snolongerapatienthere .
where is he ?
the orderlies wereherea few moments ago , andtheytookhim away .
where did they take him ?
to another hospital .
the ambulance must havejust left .
thankyou .
i' m with the f. b. i. areyou transporting a walter skinner ?
yeah .
is there something wrong ?
no .
everything is fine .
i' m just gonna ride with you the rest ofthe way , okay ?
agent scully , what areyou doing here ?
i just wanted to make sure you got whereyou were going safely .
what is it , scully ? just lie still .
federal agent !
stop right there !
areyou luis cardinal ?
areyou luis cardinal ?
please .
areyou the man that shot my sister ?
please don' t kill me .
you shot my sister !
please .
i can tell you .
tell me !
tell me !
ican tellyou .
i can tell you whatyou want .
you want ...
krycek .
ican tellyou whereheis .
please !
please don' t shoot me .
drop thegun !
put thegun down !
putitdownnow !
f. b. i.
don' t move !
easy !
got him .
standback , please .
get up !
yeah .
mulder .
mulder , it' s me .
where areyou ?
i' m at the airport in new york .
what areyou doing ?
i' m looking for my rental car agreement .
what areyou doing in new york ?
i' il tell you when i seeyou .
mulder , your instincts were right about skinner .
wejust arrested a man forwhat looks like attempted murder .
who ?
it' s him , mulder , the man who shot my sister .
uh , scully
mulder , listen to me .
he says he knows where krycek is .
i don' t know ifthis makes any sense toyou , but he says that he' s headed towards an abandoned missile site somewhere in north dakota .
i wantyou to meet me at the d. c. airport in an hour .
i wantyou to get two tickets on the first fight to north dakota .
what' s in north dakota ?
the salvaged u. f. o.
there must be 200 silos out here .
ifl' m correct , theywere all filled with concrete ... in accord with the disarmament treaty when the base was decommissioned .
i didn' t sign any disarmament treaty .
my ears are still popping .
we' re eight stories down .
where' s the concrete ?
apparently , nobody else signed that treaty either .
one down , one hundred ninety nine silos to go .
these tunnelsmustgo on formiles .
he' s here .
hold it right there !
halt !
hands in the air !
come on !
come on !
he' s here .
you led him here , didn' tyou ?
there' s nothing here but holes in the ground .
why areyou here ?
why all these men ?
i don' t oweyou any answers .
the u. f. o. ' s here .
that' s what krycek' s after , isn' t it ?
krycek ?
alex krycek disappeared five months ago .
we saw bodies in there .
men with radiation burns !
you saw nothing !
you won' t get awaywith this !
you can' t bury the truth !
take these away .
yeah .
agent mulder .
sir , i didn' t expectyou back to work for a few weeks .
i was looking foragent scully .
there was something i wanted to talk to her about .
actually , i wanted to talk toyou .
i wanted to thankyou for everything you did .
you mean getting shot in the gut ?
you got shot becauseyou stood up to these people .
i thinkyou' re proceeding from a mistaken impression .
what i did i did because it' s myjob .
from what i understand , you putyourjob and your life on the line for scully .
this isn' t my crusade , agent mulder .
a woman was murdered .
i mistakenly thought we could bring the man who committed that crime tojustice .
what doyou mean , " mistakenly " ?
that' s what i need to talk to scully about .
i wasjust thinking about something that a man said to me .
that the
that the dead speak to us from beyond the grave .
that that' s what conscience is .
that' s interesting .
i never thought ofit that way .
you know , i thought ... when we found him , this man that killed melissa , that that when we brought him tojustice , i would feel some kind ofclosure .
but the truth is , no court ... no punishment , is ever enough .
i came here to tell you something , scully .
there may be somejustice , just not the kind you' re looking for .
what areyou talking about ?
they found this man , luis cardinal , dead in his cell .
how ?
they made it look like a suicide .
the men he worked for couldn' t take the chance that he' d point his finger at them .
and what about krycek ?
oh , he was there .
i know that .
you think they got to him too ?
i don' t know .
but ifthey haven' t , theywill .
i doubt it' il weigh on their consciences , though .
i think the dead are speaking to us , mulder , demandingjustice .
maybe that man was right .
maybe we bury the dead alive .
help !
h help !
uhh !
help me !
help me !
help !
help !
no !
help me !
help me !
help me !
help me !
