if our gods and our hopes are nothing but scientific phenomena , then it must be said that our love is scientific as well " l' eve future
repo 202 to control .
arrived at target airspace .
commencing data relay .
fill me in .
the perp killed the owner 52 minutes ago , at crime scene # 1 , then took off .
ambushed and murdered two cops at crime scene # 2 , an unmapped alley .
all access points are blocked .
we storm it in 2 minutes .
that' s the cyborg cop from section 9 .
keep your distance .
i hear his bum luck catches like the plague .
e police want to horn in on us .
they' re asking for a data link .
first it' s public safety , now the e police .
decline their request respectfully .
help me .
help me .
we' ve had eight cases of gynoids murdering their masters .
after each killing , they self destruct , electronic brains reformatted .
in each case , the model in question is locus solus # 2052 , " hadaly " type .
a prototype developed for testing , they were provided free of charge to contractors .
now , they' ve recalled all the prototypes .
according to their most recent report , they' ve identified no defects in either software or hardware .
you get all that ?
manufacturer' s latest gynoids go berserk , attacking their owners , company panics and recalls every one .
they can expect lawsuits by bereaved families , inevitable liability trials and mammoth damage awards .
i get it all except why section 9 is involved .
you get it ?
what you call getting it may be just wishful thinking .
right now , section 9' s involved for two reasons .
first , not one single family has filed a lawsuit .
in every case they' ve settled with locus solus out of court .
second , the victims included a politician and a retired public safety official .
because terrorism' s a possible motive , it' s our job to consider if it' s a matter for section 9 .
ishikawa and azuma are getting background on the victims .
you two check out the gynoids .
no questions .
go .
just for the record , i didn' t volunteer for this .
there' s no way i' il measure up to the major .
that' s beside the point .
i hear she' s still listed as missing .
the major could only call her brain and her ghost her own .
although even she doubted whether they were real .
her brains and hardware were government property and her entire memory , including the classified information , were part of the deal .
the top brass only cares about recovering that memory .
her life is not an issue for them .
so , where do we start ?
locus solus is located in the northern frontier .
the first step is to check in with local forensics .
pollce
you guys ...
about the gynoid this guy wasted yesterday ...
she cost us two young officers .
don' t tell me you want her back ?
that' s part of what we' ve come to determine .
forensics is up on 1 9 , a right at the end of the hall .
need a guide ?
no thanks , we' il skip the tour .
birds never peck at green persimmons , they wait until the fruit is ripe .
back when you were a detective , you would' ve had a choice word or two for guys like us swooping down to horn in on your case .
that' s why it' s so irritating .
it' s like watching my old self .
it is no use to blame the looking glass if your face is askew .
the mirror is not an instrument of enlightenment but of illusion .
well , neither of us has looks worth staring at in the mirror .
you can come all you want , i' m not sharing this investigation .
and if you' re too persistent , i' il have you detained .
i' m togusa , public safety section 9 .
this scary looking fellow ...
blew her apart with double 0 buckshot .
a 50 caliber hollow point would' ve left her easier to reconstruct .
she wasted 3 people , two of ' em cops .
she was trying to commit suicide before you shot her .
isn' t that right ?
" commit suicide " meaning ...
miss ...
haraway .
miss haraway , how exactly would a robot kill itself ?
by intentionally malfunctioning , these gynoids are capable of self authorizing attacks against humans .
this liberates them from moral code # 3 .
which stipulates , " maintain existence without injuring humans .
isn' t " self destruction " more accurate ?
if you assume differences between humans and machines are obvious .
are such " suicides " confined to a particular model ?
not necessarily .
in recent years we' ve seen a surge of robot related problems , especially among the " pets " .
the cause ?
e brain contamination from microbes and viruses , human production errors , functional defects from wear and tear .
take your pick , but ...
but ?
i say it' s because humans discard robots once they' re redundant .
when owners trade up to newer models , some of those abandoned become vagrants , and degenerate .
perhaps it" s a protest against their own obsolescence .
absurd .
humans are different from robots .
that" s an article of faith , like black isn' t white .
it" s no more helpful than the basic fact that humans aren" t machines .
unlike industrial robots , the androids and gynoids designed as" pets , " weren' t designed along utilitarian or practical models .
instead , we model them on a human image , an idealized one at that .
why are humans so obsessed with recreating themselves ?
do you have children ?
a daughter .
children have been excluded from the customary standards of human behavior , if you define humans as beings who possess a conventional identity and act out of free will .
then what are children who endure in the chaos preceding maturity ?
they differ profoundly from " humans , " but they obviously have human form .
the dolls that little girls mother , are not surrogates for real babies .
little girls aren' t so much imitating child rearing , as they are experiencing something deeply akin to child rearing .
what on earth are you talking about ?
raising children is the simplest way to achieve the ancient dream of artificial life .
at least , that" s my hypothesis .
children aren' t dolls ! .
descartes didn' t differentiate man from machine , animate from inanimate .
he lost his beloved five year old daughter and then named a doll after her , francine .
he doted on her .
at least that' s what they say .
can we get back to reality here ?
i' d like your observations with respect to the hadaly robot , model # 2052 , manufactured by locus solus .
right .
it' s very well designed .
i understand it' s a prototype , but it' s intended for particular functions .
particular functions ?
it' s equipped with organs unnecessary in service robots .
meaning ?
it' s a sexaroid .
nothing to brag about to your neighbors , but hardly illegal .
i get it .
scandal .
no wonder those families settled out of court .
when its systems shut down , the electronic brain reformats .
that" s standard protection for manufacturer' s proprietary software .
but ...
but , what ?
we found a file in the audio buffer .
care to hear it ?
help me .
help me .
help me .
thanks for your help .
uh , one last question .
it" s none of my business , but ...
no , i' ve never raised a child .
nothing registered at the ovum bank .
thank you , miss ...
haraway .
no need for miss or mrs.
she' s not really the type for technical work .
her reports are doubtless full of unsolicited opinions , just like mine .
which held you back from promotion .
we secure that gynoid' s brain for the labs at section 9 .
that' s the last we' il see of her .
she your type ?
actually , i like older women .
next ?
follow procedure .
lnvestigate the hadaly inspector ?
09 calling 907 .
there' s been a 602 in the district 201 boathouse .
victim is inspector for locus solus .
scene secured two minutes prior to local police .
roger , 907 .
unbelievable timing .
a fine spring day .
a carriage sprints between this world and the next .
you' re all alone here ?
koga got reacquainted with his dinner and went back with the corpse .
what a wimp .
the scene , 22 minutes ago .
you made a rookie deal with this mess ?
life' s a learning curve .
here' s what we' ve got .
analysis of victim' s brain yields ...
jack volkerson , age 54 .
consignment inspector for locus solus .
he applied for leave five days ago and vanished .
three days ago , he rented this boathouse .
the murder weapon , kitchen utensils .
inspection of the area turned up a vehicle license
iinked to organized crime .
we" re checking it out .
seven credit cards found in jacket , presumably the victim' s .
investigating transaction history .
38 caliber sw model 2602 .
looks like he ran out of time .
doubt it would' ve done him much good .
an illegally powerful cyborg , " or maybe a professional faking a psycho .
969 calling 906 , 20 seconds away from the scene , don' t touch .
not a thing .
let' s leave this to forensics .
907 calling 09 .
we' re handing the scene over to 969 .
09 , roger .
it' s my daughter' s birthday .
family man , huh ?
i' il drop you off .
wrong direction .
ishikawa ?
not headed his way , either .
okay .
daughter' s birthday takes priority .
you' re a cheerful bunch .
the chief showing up at a scene ?
the corpse is missing parts , that' s why .
the place is all yours .
take your time .
what" s the big deal over a local case ?
the boss has taken an interest .
found it !
divided up in jars in the refrigerator .
heart , liver , kidneys , even the pancreas .
conscientious bastard .
fresh dog food , huh ?
stick to dry food and he' il last longer .
i can' t feed him that .
you' re teamed up with togusa ?
beats being paired off with a rookie fresh out of training .
for an ex detective , he' s got his uses .
i' ve got no complaints .
except that the only one up to your standards was the major .
cut the chatter , lshikawa .
* but everything still holds me
* in my heart
* hidden deep in my mind
* the pictures are still on the wall *
later .
batou ...
what now ?
stick to the dry food .
for nutritional balance , it" s better for the dog .
* and i am still here
* with your memories
* dreaming hopelessly holding in my heart [ car starts ]
* all the flowers you gave
* broken melodies
* no more singing
* no more laughing
* in the sun
* river of moonshine
* i hear your voice
* and it' s calling
* but i' m still alone
* but i' m still alone
* i' m alone [ dog growls ]
* alone *
he died from a blow that severed his cervical vertebrae .
the kitchen utensils were for evisceration , not murder .
someone took their time dismembering the corpse ?
so it appears .
we' ve confirmed the organs in the refrigerator were the victim' s .
they reveal gastritis and cirrhosis of the liver .
apparently an alcoholic .
why' d the perp bother with the organs ?
maybe to create the impression he was a psycho or a freak .
or to underscore an element of retribution or revenge .
so we" re not looking for an assassin posing as a thrill seeker .
what' s with the warped doorknob ?
analysis indicates a chinese prosthetic limb , model nr26 .
known as the crab claw .
strictly military .
available on the black market , defective ones , anyway .
the claw jives with that stiff' s mutilated neck , too .
did you track down the license on those yakuza wheels ?
they' ve covered their tracks with a lot of illegal modifications .
stick to the facts .
we tracked down records from a nearby parking lot .
the vehicle in question' s registered to a crime group called kojinkai .
car' s bulletproofed , with a reinforced chassis and rear shocks .
it' s been linked to a number of assault scenes .
custom wheels for a cyborg .
an illegally powerful bodyguard at that .
so this was yakuza payback ?
but where' s the motive ?
the kojinkai' s an entrenched japanese crime syndicate .
drugs , hookers , gambling , scams , an anything goes yakuza operation .
and a hadaly gynoid yanked off the big boss , lnoue' s head 3 days ago .
a young turk , wakabayashi , took over the show .
avenge the boss ' death and his throne is yours .
hold on .
if volkerson knew they had it in for him , why' d he take the trouble of hiding out on their turf ?
we don" t know .
his e brain' s wiped clean , so the car' s our only lead .
let' s leave this one to the locals .
the terrorists masquerading as deranged robots scenario ?
there' s no political link between the victims , so i think that' s a dead end .
but i' m putting batou and togusa on all our berserk hadaly cases full time , this one included .
the rest of you , get back to your regular shifts .
that' s it .
togusa .
see me before you go .
talk to me .
we' il check out any links between the kojinkai mob and locus solus .
i mean batou .
your job includes monitoring your partner' s emotional state .
i know , but i' m not a cyborg or an electronic neurologist .
one need not be caesar in order to understand caesar .
you' re a family man , right ?
do you consider yourself to be happy ?
well , sure .
most of us are neither so happy nor so miserable as we think .
the key is to stay engaged with your life and your hopes .
i don" t understand .
lately , batou' s reminding me of the major before she disappeared .
you know , " let one walk alone , committing no sin , with few wishes , like an elephant in the forest .
chief , why did you pick me for this job ?
because it was the major who plucked you off your local beat .
what' d he want ?
apparently you don' t need to be caesar in order to understand him .
that goes without saying .
the world cannot live at the level of its great men .
you planning on starting a war ?
no need to be a yakuza to pay them a visit , but we' il need weapons .
i want to get something straight .
what ?
we' re just going to chat with these guys , right ?
you dislike yakuza ?
sure .
detest them .
same here .
but we' re just going to chat , right ?
like i said , you don' t need to be a yakuza ...
i know .
to pay them a visit .
but you also said we need weapons .
i' m a family man .
i can always go alone .
no .
i' il go with you , i am your partner .
but i want your word .
okay .
we' re just going to chat .
avoid shooting as best you can .
happy now ?
just fine .
let' s go then , pal .
who the fuck are you ?
here to chat with wakabayashi .
go get him .
what about , " avoid shooting ?
i did as best i could .
move out , you' re on point .
here comes their back up .
images !
that son of a bitch infiltrated our vision !
blame your own cheap shit electronics .
what' s up ?
narrow , dark stairs .
what' s the program ?
we take turns , i' il lead .
no , i' il lead .
you' re so damned big , i can' t cover you .
your little gifts exploded above my head .
even presuming they went off at their most lethal range , you think two grenades are going to off an armored cyborg ?
you insult me .
start by telling me about the dead consignment inspector , then spill your connections to locus solus .
well , look who' s here .
bring it on , crab man .
you and that claw look nasty , but i' m ready .
betting on that obvious a move ?
moron .
they told me where to find the consignment inspector ... ... so we whacked him .
i' m fresh out of 3 years in the pen .
i know jack shit about what the boss was up to with that outfit .
still with me , pal ?
all i could see ... were my wife and daughter' s faces .
that wasn" t your wife or daughter .
it was the grim reaper .
i ordered you to conduct an investigation .
i never said skip the paperwork and act like vigilantes .
i certainly don' t recall ordering you to barge into any yakuza office .
this isn' t the jungle and you' re not special forces hit men .
you still pissed off ?
i am not pissed .
and i hate to sound ungrateful to the man who saved my life ... [ brakes screeching ]
but being your partner is definitely gonna take a toll on me .
look , it' s only the two of us on this case .
a half assed approach just won' t cut it .
if locus solus has anything to hide , they' il come after us .
so that' s why you put on that yakuza gun show .
yeah , and if the chief was really pissed , he' d have suspended us .
pull over , will you ?
later .
you' re in the kill zone .
don' t tamper with the settings on that new arm of yours .
the operating system upgrades can conflict with the weapon control , rendering it entirely useless .
then you' il have to reformat the thing .
hey , where are the remains of my old arm ?
don' t even think about it .
not much left .
the organic components in this new one match your dna .
i suppose that , with enough use , it' il feel like my own .
ouch .
hey , just hold on .
the fact that you carried him here means that ...
yeah .
i broke into your love nest .
i just couldn' t stomach the thought of him moaning with hunger , covered in shit , waiting for you .
believe it or not , i' m a dog lover .
but i' m the one that took him in for the night .
my daughter' s in heaven and my wife' s fuming over her dirty carpets .
when did you start tailing me ?
it' s no big deal , man .
yes , it is a big deal .
you used me as a smokescreen .
with experience , you would' ve caught on .
blame it on the boss .
is this pooch a clone ?
aren' t originals outrageously expensive ?
his was the first line bred by artificial insemination .
it' s hardly your style to let them hack into your brain .
and any daily routine just makes you vulnerable to traps .
i told you to stick to dry food .
but he likes the fresh stuff and that" s the only store that carries it .
they had you going berserk , shooting five bullets into your own arm , and nearly blowing away the store owner .
he may be nuts , but it' s a rare bird that can hack into this guy .
except for the major .
and why didn' t they make me blow my own head off ?
i think , because they want to disgrace you , not wipe you out .
first , you barge into a yakuza office , send a dozen men to heaven or the hospital , and that very same day , unload your weapon in a grocery store .
so we think either you' ve gone mad or your e brain' s shot .
but this was a planned attack .
it proves that our case wasn' t random .
we can' t pull out .
we' d jeopardize the whole point of section 9 .
that' s what the major" d say .
and l" ve got a message from the boss , too .
stay on it , but no more official section support until you come up with material proof .
we' il go to the source then , locus solus .
nothing preserves secrecy like speed .
you" re going to the northern frontier immediately .
far north ?
you two can' t handle it ?
sure , but what about the basset ?
a single man in this line of work keeping a dog is preposterous !
and of all dogs , you choose a high maintenance hound .
it" s not my problem .
you guys figure it out !
this area was once intended as the far east' s most important information center , a special economic zone in its heyday .
these towers survive as a shadow of the city" s former glory .
its dubious sovereignty has made it the ideal haven for multi nationals and the criminal elements that feed off their spoils .
it' s a lawless zone , beyond the reach of un or e police .
reminds me of the line , " what the body creates , is as much an expression of dna as the body itself .
but the same applies to beaver dams and spiderwebs .
i' il take the coral reefs as my metaphor .
though hardly so beautiful .
if the essence of life is information carried in dna , then society and civilization are just colossal memory systems and a metropolis like this one , simply a sprawling external memory .
how great is the sum of thy thoughts .
if i should count them , they are more in number than the sand .
psalms 1 39 , old testament .
the way you spout these spontaneous exotic references ,
i' d say your own external memory' s pretty twisted .
look who' s talking !
sorry to interrupt , but we' re about to fly over locus solus .
this pass is for you , so take a good look .
so much for the free tour .
prepare for landing .
his legions , angel forms , who lay entranced .
thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks .
now you' re quoting milton , but we are not satan .
