do you find me sadistic ?
well , i bet i could fry an egg on your head right now ... if i wanted to .
you know kiddo ,
i' d like to believe that you' re aware enough even now ... to know that there is nothing sadistic in my actions .
maybe towards those other jokers , but not you .
you know kiddo , this moment , this is me at my most non sadistic .
bill , it' s your baby .
i was five and he was six .  we rode on horses made of sticks .  he wore black and i wore white .  he would always win the fight .  bang , bang .
he shot me down .  bang , bang .
i hit the ground .  bang , bang .
that aweful sound .  bang , bang .
my baby shot me down .
seasons came and changed the time .  when i grew up i called him mine  he would always laugh and say ,  remember when we used to play .  bang , bang .
i shot you down .  bang , bang .
you hit the ground .  bang , bang .
that aweful sound .  bang , bang .
i used to shoot you down .
music played and people sang .  just for me the church bells rang .
now he' s gone , i don' t know why .  and till this day , sometimes i cry .  he didn' t even say good bye ,  didn' t take the time to lie .  bang , bang .
he shot me down .  bang , bang .
i hit the ground .  bang , bang .
that aweful sound .  bang , bang .
my baby shot me down .
coming .
carol , i cannot believe you are early !
come on bitch .
come on .
mommy , i' m home .
hey baby .
how was school ?
mommy , what happened to you and tv room ?
oh , that little dog of yours , got his ass into the living room and acted like a damn pool .
that' s what happened baby .
barney did this ?
baby , you can' t come in here .
there' s broken glass everywhere .
you could cut yourself .
this is an old friend of mommy' s i haven' t seen in a long time .
hi honey .
i' m ?? .
what' s your name ?
her name is nikki .
nikki , such a pretty name for such a pretty girl .
how old are you nikki ?
nikki , ?? asked you a question .
i' m four .
four years old , eh .
you know , i had a little girl once .
she' d be about four now .
now baby , me and mommy' s friend have grown up stuff to talk about .
i want you to go in your room now and leave us alone till i tell you to come out .
ok ?
nikkia .
in your room , now .
you want some coffee ?
yeah , sure .
this pasadena' s homemaker' s name is jeanny bell .
her husband is doctor lawrence bell .
but back when we were acquainted four years ago , her name was vernita green .
her code name was copperhead .
o seu nome de cdigo era copperhead .
72 00 : 08 : 58, 680 > 00 : 09 : 00, 680 mine , black mamba .
can i have a towel ?
yeah .
thanks .
still take cream and sugar , right ?
yeah .
i suppose it' s a little late for an apology , huh ?
you suppose correctly .
look bitch ,
i need to know if you' re going to start any shit around my baby girl .
you can relax for now .
i' m not going to murder you in front of your child , ok ?
you need to be more rational because i don' t know what you' re capable of .
it' s mercy , compassion , and forgiveness i lack .
not rationality .
i know i fucked you over .
i fucked you over bad .
i wish to god i hadn' t , but i did .
you have every right to get even .
no .
get even ?
even steven ?
i would have to kill you .
go to nikkie' s room , kill her .
then wait for your husband the good doctor bell to come home and kill him .
that would be even steven .
assim vingars steven .
94 00 : 10 : 17, 120 > 00 : 10 : 19, 240 that would leave us square .
look , if i could go back in a machine i would , but i can' t .
all i can tell you is that i' m a different person now .
oh , great .
i don' t care .
be that as it may , i know i don' t deserve your mercy or your forgiveness .
however , i beseech you for both what happened and for my daughter .
bitch .
you can stop right there .
just because i have no wish to murder you before the eyes of your daughter ... does not mean that parading her around in front of me is going to inspire sympathy .
you and i have unfinished business .
and not a god damned fucking thing you' ve done in the subsequent 4 years , including getting knocked up , is going to change that .
when do we do this ?
it all depends .
when do you want to die ?
tomorrow ?
the day after tomorrow ?
aman ?
108 00 : 11 : 16, 000 > 00 : 11 : 17, 160 how about tonight , bitch ?
e 109 00 : 11 : 17, 160 > 00 : 11 : 19, 560
there a baseball diamond where i coach a little league about a mile from here .
we meet there around 2 : 30 in the morning , dressed all in black , your hair in black stocking , we' il have a knife fight .
you won' t be bothered .
and now , i have to fix nikki cereal .
bill always said you were one of the best ladies he ever saw with an edge weapon .
fuck you bitch .
i know you did qualify that shit .
so you , you can kiss my mother fucking ass just like mamba .
mamba .
i should have been more like mother fucking mamba .
it' s a weapon of your choice and you can stick with your butcher knife if you want , that' s fine with me .
very funny bitch .
very funny .
it' s not my intention to do this in front of you .
for that i' m sorry .
you can take my word for it .
your mother had it coming .
when you grow up , just don' t feel wrong about it .
i' il be waiting .
well , give me the gory details on that one .
it' s a god damn massacre , pop .
they wiped out the whole wedding party , execution style .
give me a figure .
nine dead bodies .
we' re talking the whole chebang .
bride , groom , reverend ... reverend' s wife .
hell , they even shot that old colored fellow that played the organ .
appears to me somebody objected to the union that wasn' t able to hold their piece .
good great green !
what' d i tell you , pop !
like a god damn nicaraguan death squad .
this is a shit can mess of war in the house of the lord .
sorry pop .
incidentally , was a weird profession .
my guesstimate it' s a lumber hit squad .
four , maybe five strong .
how can you tell ?
well it' s sure a steady hand did this .
it ain' t no squirrelly amateur .
this was the work of a salty dog .
you can tell by the cleanliness of the carving that killed crazy ram pig , though it may be , though cut a fine line .
if he wasn' t a moron , he' d almost get a merit .
who' s the bride ?
don' t know .
the name on the marriage certificate is arlene macuvelli .
that' s a fake .
we' ve always been calling her the bride on account of her dress .
you can tell if she' s pregnant .
the man had to be a mad dog to kill a damned good looking gal like that in the head .
look at her .
a colored hair , big eyes .
she' s a blood splattered angel .
son number one ...
yeah .
call regan .
the cock sucker ain' t dead .
i might never have liked you .
quite in fact , i despise you .
but this shouldn' t suggest i don' t respect you .
dying in our sleep is a luxury that are kinda rarely afforded .
my gift ... to you .
for god' s sake !
hello bill .
what' s her condition ?
comatose .
where is she ?
i' m standing over her right now .
that' s my girl .
elle , you' re going to abort the mission .
we owe her better than that .
no , you don' t owe her shit .
will you keep your voice down ?
you don' t owe her shit .
may i say one thing .
speak .
you all beat the hell out of that woman , but you didn' t kill her .
you put a bullet in her head but her heart just kept on beating .
now you saw that yourself with your own beautiful blue eye .
did you not ?
we' ve done a lot of things to this lady .
and if she wakes up , we' il do a whole lot more .
but one thing we won' t do is sneak into her room in the night ,
like a filthy rat and kill her in her sleep .
and the reason we won' t do that thing is because that thing would lower us .
don' t you agree miss driver ?
i guess .
do you really have to guess ?
no , i really don' t have to guess .
i know .
come on home , honey .
affirmative .
i love you very much .
i love you too .
bye bye .
you thought that was pretty fucking funny , didn' t you ?
a word of advise , shit head ...
don' t you ever wake up .
at this moment , this is me , in my most sadistic moment .
bill , it' s your ...
the price is 35 dollars a fuck , my friend .
think you can get the freak on or what ?
oh yeah boy .
ten , twenty , thirty ... yeah .
now here' s the rules .
rule number one , don' t punch her .
the nurse comes in tomorrow and she' s got a shiner or some less teeth , the jig' s up .
no knuckle sandwiches under no circumstances .
and by the way , this little cunt' s a spirit , it' s a motor reflex thing .
spirit or no , no punching .
now are we absolutely positively clear on rule number one ?
yeah .
good .
rule number two .
no monkey bites or hickeys .
in fact , don' t leave no marks of no kind .
after that , it' s all good , buddy .
there' s no one down at work till tomorrow , so feel free to come back all you want .
keep the noise down and try not to make a mess .
i' il be back in twenty .
oh shit .
by the way , not all the times , but sometimes this chick' s cooch can be as dry as a bucket of sand .
if she' s dry , lube up with this and you' il be good to go .
don' t ask to keep it buddy .
oh yeah .
god damn .
you are the best looking girl i' ve had today .
yo , stud , time' s up buddy .
coming in , ready or not .
hey buddy , did you have yourself a good time ?
where' s bill ?
please stop hitting me .
i don' t know who bill is .
bull shit .
she' s a real slice of cutie pie they say , you know .
jane doe .
they don' t know shit about you .
i' m from huntsville texas .
my name' s buck , and i' m here to fuck .
your name' s buck , right ?
and you came here to fuck .
right ?
you fucker .
wiggle your big toe .
as i lay in the back of buck' s truck trying to will my limbs out of entropy .
wiggle your big toe .
i could see the faces of cunts who did this to me .
and the dick responsible .
members all of the deadly vipers assassination squad .
when fortune smiles on something as violent and ugly as revenge , it seems proof like no other that not only does god exist , you' re doing his will .
at a time when i knew the least about my enemies , the first name on my death list ,
o ren ishii was easiest to find .
but of course when one manages the difficult task of becoming queen of the tokyo underworld , one doesn' t keep it a secret , does one ?
o ren ishii was born on an american military base in tokyo , japan .
the half japanese , half chinese american army brat made her first acquaintance with death at the age of nine .
it was at that age that she witnessed the death of her parents at the hands of japan' s most ruthless yakuza boss , boss matsumoto .
w h i m p e r .
mommy !
she swore revenge .
lucky for her , boss matsumoto was a pedophile .
at eleven , she got her revenge .
look at me matsumoto .
look at my face .
take a good look at my face .
look at my eyes .
look at my mouth .
do i look familiar ?
do i look like somebody .
you murdered !
by twenty she was one of the top female assassins in the world .
at twenty five she did her part in the killing of nine innocent people , including my unborn daughter , in a small wedding chapel in el paso , texas .
but on that day , four years ago , she made one big mistake .
she should have killed ten .
however , before satisfaction be mine ,
first thing first , wiggle your big toe .
hard part' s over .
now , let' s get these other piggies wiggling .
welcome to arrow .
may i help you ?
okinawa ... one way .
hi .
welcome .
you english ?
almost ... american .
american .
welcome then .
domo .
my english ... very good .
you said domo , very good , can you speak japanese ?
no , oh no .
just a few words i learned since yesterday .
um , may i sit at the bar ?
oh sure sure , please , sit .
what other words did you learn ?
oh , excuse me .
shut up , get your ass out here .
you' il excuse me .
ahhh what other japanese ... do you know ?
oh , let' s see .
arigato .
arigato ... mm
um i already said domo , right ?
yeah .
oh yea yea yea .
konijiwa .
ah ah ah .
konichiwa .
ko ni chi wa , please repeat .
konichiwa .
ah , that' s good .
good , good .
you say japanese words like japanese .
now you' re making fun of me .
no no no .
see , serious business .
pronunciation very good .
you say arigato , like we say arigato .
well thank you .
i mean , arigato .
you should learn japanese .
very easy .
no kidding .
i heard it was kind of hard .
most of the them , but you have a japanese tongue .
ok ok omachikasama .
oh my god ,
i beg your pardon ?
drink .
oh yes , um , a bottle of warm sake please .
do you understand ?
do you understand me ?
sorry .
oh , first time in japan ?
uh huh .
what brings you to okinawa ?
i came to see a man .
oh yeah .
you have a friend that you are in love ?
not quite .
a friend ?
i never met him .
never ?
who is he ?
may i ask ?
hattori hanzo .
you must have big rats if you need hattori hanzo steel .
huge .
may i ?
you may .
wait .
try the second one from the top .
you like a samurai sword , i like baseball .
i wanted to show you these .
however , someone as you , who knows so much , must surely know .
i no longer make instruments of death .
what i have here .
i keep for their aesthetic and sentimental value .
yet , proud as i am of my life' s work .
i have retired .
then give me one of these .
these are not for sale .
i didn' t say sell me .
i said give me .
why ... should i give you ?
because my vermin is a former student of yours .
and considering the student , i' d say you have a rather large obligation .
you can sleep here .
it was one year after the massacre in el paso , texas , the bill backed his nippon progeny financially and philosophically in her shakespearian in magnitude power struggle with the other yakuza clans over who would rule vice in the city of tokyo .
when the final sword was sheathed , it was o ren iseii and her powerful posse , the crazy 88 , that proved the victor .
the pretty lady to o ren' s right , who' s dressed like she' s a villain on startrek , is o ren' s lawyer , best friend and second lieutenant , the half french half japanese , sofie fatale .
another former praetorship of bill' s .
the young girl in the school uniform is o ren' s personal body guard , 17 year old gogo yurari .
gogo may be young , but what she lacks in age , she makes up for in madness .
see what i mean ?
the bold guy in a black suit and a kato mask , is johnny mo .
the head general of o ren' s personal army , the crazy 88 .
and just in case you' re wondering how could a half breed japanese chinese american become the boss of bosses in tokyo , japan ,
i' il tell you .
the subject of o ren' s blood and nationality came up before the council only once , the night o ren assumed power over the crime council .
the man who seems bound and determined to break the mood is boss tanaka .
and what boss tanaka thinks is ...
as your leader ,
i encourage you from time to time and always in a respectful manner , to question my logic .
if you' re unconvinced a particular plan of action i' ve decided is the wisest , tell me so .
but allow me to convince you .
and i promise you right here and now , no subject will ever be taboo ... except of course the subject that was just under discussion .
the price you pay for bringing up either my chinese or my american heritage as a negative is ,
i collect your fuckin head .
just like this fucker here .
now if any of you sons of bitches got anything else to say , now' s the fucking time .
i didn' t think so .
one ticket to tokyo, please .
o ren ishii !
mickey !
so o ren , any more subordinates for me to kill ?
bingo !
gogo , i know you feel you must protest your mistress .
but i beg you ... walk away .
is that what i think it is ?
you didn' t think that' d be that easy , did you ?
you know , for a second there , yeah , i kindof did .
silly rabbit , trix are for kids .
thls is what you get for funklng around wlth yakuzas !
now go home to your mother
except you sofie , you stay right where you are
your instrument is quite impressive .
silly caucasian girl likes to play with samurai swords .
you may not be able to fight like a samurai , but you can at least die like a samurai .
sofie , sofie , my sofie
i' m so sorry .
please , please forgive my betrayal ...
no more of that ...
but still , i , i ...
but still nothing , except my aching heart over what she' s done to my beautiful and brilliant sofie .
i' ve kept you live for two reasons .
first reason is information .
but i am gonna to ask you questions .
and every time you don' t give me answers ,
i' m gonna cut something off .
and i promise you , they will be things you will miss .
glve me your arm !
i want all the information on the deadly vipers , what they' ve been doing and where i can find them .
if you had to guess why she left you alive what would be your guess ?
guessing won' t be necessary .
she informed me .
she said i could keep my wicked life for two reasons .
as i said before ,
i' ve allowed you to keep your wicked life for two reasons .
and the second reason is ,
so you can tell him , in person , everything that happened here tonight .
i want you to witness the extent of my mercy by witnessing your deformed body .
i want you to tell him , all the information that you just told me .
i want him to know what i know .
i want him to know i want him to know . .
453 01 : 36 : 43, 000 > 01 : 36 : 45, 600 and i want them all to know , they' il all soon be as dead as o ren .
that woman deserves her revenge .
and we deserve to die .
e 457 01 : 37 : 51, 280 > 01 : 37 : 55, 120 she must suffer to her last breath .
how did you find me ?
i' m the man .
one more thing sofie is she aware her daughter is still alive ?
