stockholm/ sweden/ august 1999
giancarlo12and his family live in hiding .
we meet them in an undisclosed locationwith an interpreter .
/ hldden /
it' s the seventh of august at ...
what are you doing ?
they want to know what it was like when you came here .
andyou' il translate ?
yes .
they came here in october 1994 .
giancarlo couldn' t come with them .
they couldn' t afford to bring him .
but over the course of the year we saved up money for his ticket .
when i camel didn' t know anything about deportation .
i just came like everyone else .
how long have you been in hiding ?
about ... since 1997 ... two yearsl think .
how many times have you moved ?
at least five times .
do your classmates know ?
i think they suspect it .
so i try to stay away from them .
why are you afraid of them ?
i think their parents might be policemen .
they wonder why i won' t give out my address and things .
they' re suspicious sometimes .
once i was at schoolafter we were threatenedwith deportation ...
and they told me " the police were atyour place .
i askedwhat they didand they said " they broke in through the door .
it was like we were already caught andwe couldn' t escape .
what didyou do then ?
stayed home looking out the window .
how longwere you alone in peru ?
a year .
i almost never got to go to school because i had to work .
how oldwere you ?
eight .
what didyou work with at eight ?
polished shoes on the street .
me and some other kids went into town together ...
sometimes the police chased us .
we tried to hide from them .
we knew practically the whole city so we had holes to hide in .
some of the younger kids got caught because they couldn' t run so fast .
you mean younger than eight ?
yeahsix or seven .
what happened to them ?
they had to go to an orphanage .
were they orphans ?
some of themwere .
some had parentsbut the police thought their parents didn' t care .
and the parents never found out ?
they did ...
but they thought their kids would have abetter life there .
did they ?
i don' t know . we never visited them .
were they close friends of yours ?
yesmost of them .
hi .
hi .
what do you think when you meet someone you want to be friends with ?
i think we could be best friends .
but i can' t have that .
i always break up with friends .
sometimes i get desperate .
what do you do then ?
nothing .
lie down and try to sleep .
and i think" what have i done to get me deported ?
ls it hard to talk about it ?
it' s alittle hard because ...
i tell so many people ... ... and they don' t do anything .
what do you think i should do ?
i don' t know .
that winter giancarlo attempts suicide .
this time the authorities take him seriously and the family is allowed to stay .
shootgiancarloshoot !
a film by hanna heilborndavid aronowitsch and matsjohansson
jonas moberg mantraanimation/ story ab
