was it all just a dream ?
god bless you , florida .
thank you !
did the last four years not really happen ?
look , there' s ben affleck .
he' s often in my dreams .
and the taxi driver guy .
he was there too .
and little stevie wonder , he seemed so happy ,
like a miracle had taken place .
was it a dream ?
or was it real ?
it was election night 2000 and everything seemed to be going as planned .
in new york ,
al gore is our projected winner .
the garden state is green for gore .
we project that mr. gore is the winner in delaware .
this state has voted with the winner in ...
florida goes for al gore .
cnn announces that we call florida in the al gore column .
then something called the fox news channel called the election in favor of the other guy .
sorry to interrupt you ;
fox news now projects george w. bush the winner in florida and thus it appears the winner of the presidency of the united states .
all of a sudden the other networks said ,
hey , if fox said it , it must be true .
all of us networks made a mistake and projected florida in the al gore column .
it was our mistake .
now what most people don' t know is that the man who was in charge of the decision desk at fox that night , the man who called it for bush was none other than bush' s first cousin ,
john ellis .
how does someone like bush get away with something like this ?
well first , it helps if your brother is the governor of the state in question .
you know something , we are gonna win florida , mark my words .
you can write it down .
second , make sure the chairman of your campaign is also the vote count woman .
and that her state has hired a company that' s gonna knock voters off the roles who aren' t likely to vote for you .
you can usually tell ' em by the color of their skin .
then make sure your side fights
like it' s life or death .
i think all of this talk about
legitimacy is way overblown .
and hope that the other side will just sit by and wait for the phone to ring .
and even if numerous independent investigations prove that gore got the most votes ...
if there was a statewide recount , under every scenario ,
gore won the election .
it won' t matter , just so long as all of your daddy' s friends on the sue preme court vote the right way .
while i strongly disagree with the court' s decision ,
i accept it .
what we need now is acceptance .
we have a new president elect .
heh .
it turns out none of this was a dream .
it' s what really happened .
on the day the joint session of both the house of representatives and the senate was to certify the election results ,
al gore , in his dual role as outgoing vice president and president of the senate , presided over the event that would officially annoint
george w. bush as the new president .
if any congressman wanted to raise an objection , the rules insisted that he or she had to have the signed support of just one senator .
mr. president , and i take great pride in calling you that , um , i must object because of the overwhelming evidence of official misconduct , deliberate ..
the chairman must remind members that under section 18 ,
title 3 of the united states code , no debate is allowed in the joint session .
thank you mr. president , to answer your question , mr. president , the objection is in writing , signed by a number of members of the houseof representatives, but not by a member of the senate .
uh , mr. president it is in writing and signed by several house colleagues on behalf and myself of the twenty seven thousand voters of duval county in which sixteen thousand of them were african americans that was disenfranchised in this last election .
is the objection signed by a member of the senate ?
not signed by a member of the senate ; the senate is missin ' .
mr. president , it is in writing and signed by myself on behalf of many of the diverse constituents in our country , especially those of the 9th congressional district and all american voters who recognize that the supreme court , not the people of the united states , decided this election .
is the objection signed by a senator ?
unfortunately , mr. president , it is not signed by one single senator .
unfortunately ,
i have no authority over the united states senate and no senator has signed .
mr. president , it is in writing and signed by myself and several of my constituents from florida .
a senator is needed , but missing .
is the objection , uh , in writing and signed by a member of the house and a senator ?
the objection is in writing , and i don' t care that it is not , it is not signed by a member of the senate .
the chair will advise that the rules do care , uh , and ...
not a single senator came to the aid of the african americans in congress .
one after another they were told to sit down and shut up .
it' s a sad day in america ,
mr. president , when we can' t find a senator to sign these objections ...
gentleman will suspend , the gentleman will suspend .
inauguration coverage 2001 on a nasty but it could be worse kind of day in washington .
on the day george w. bush was inaugurated , tens of thousands of americans poured into the streets of dc in one last attempt to claim what had been taken from them .
they pelted bush' s limo with eggs and brought the inauguration parade to a halt .
the plan to have bush get out of the limo for the traditional walk to the white house was scrapped ;
bush' s limo hit the gas to prevent an even larger riot .
no president had ever witnessed such a thing on his inauguration day .
and for the next eight months it didn' t get any better for george w. bush .
he couldn' t get his judges appointed ; he had trouble getting his legislation passed ; and he lost republican control of the senate .
his approval ratings in the polls began to sink .
he was already beginning to look
like a lame duck president .
with everything going wrong he did what any of us would do he went on vacation .
in his first eight months in office before september 11th ,
george w. bush was on vacation , according to the washington post , forty two percent of the time .
i hit every shot good ; people would say i wasn' t working .
it was not surprising that mr. bush needed some time off .
being president is hard work .
many folks say you' re loafing here in texas , that you' re taking too long of a vacation .
they don' t understand the definition of work .
i' m getting a lot done .
secondly , you don' t have to be in washington to work .
it' s amazing what can happen with telephones , faxes , and ...
what are you doing the rest of the day ?
uh , karen hughes is comin ' over , we' re workin ' on some things .
and uh , she' il be over here , we' re workin ' on these things .
these matters .
i' m workin ' on some initiatives .
we' re uh ... you' il see .
there' il be some decisions
i' m gonna make while i' m here and we' il be announcing them as time goes on .
the first i met him he had some good advice for me .
governor bush , it' s michael moore .
behave yourself will ya ; go find real work .
and work was something he knew a lot about .
anyone want some grits ?
relaxing at camp david .
yachting off kennebunkport .
or being a cowboy on the ranch in texas .
i love the nature ;
i love getting in the pickup truck with my dogs .
george bush spent the rest of august at the ranch where life was less complicated .
i love to dig the soil looking for bugs and uh , so um , i went out there the other day and there was barny buried in this hole chasing an armadillo .
it was a summer to remember .
and when it was over , he left texas for his second favorite place .
on september 10 , he joined his brother in florida where they looked at files and met important floridians .
he went to sleep that night in a bed made with fine french linens .
you suppose he' s pretty confident on those numbers on iraqi security forces ?
make me look young .
yeah , i got a little bit of sort of ear noise .
don' t turn it up too much , don' t want it to blow my head off .
on september 11th , 2001 , nearly 3, 000 people including a colleague of mine , bill weems were killed in the largest foreign attack ever on american soil .
the targets were the financial and military headquarters of the united states .
if anyone has any idea , have seen him , or knows where he is , to call us .
he' s got two little babies .
two little babies .
as the attack took place ,
mr. bush was on his way to an elementary school in florida .
when informed of the first plane hitting the world trade center , where terrorists had struck just eight years prior ,
mr. bush decided to go ahead with this photo opportunity .
when the second plane hit the tower , his chief of staff entered the classroom and told mr. bush the nation is under attack .
not knowing what to do , with no one telling him what to do , and no secret service rushing in to take him to safety ,
mr. bush just sat there and continued to read ' my pet goat ' with the children .
nearly seven minutes passed with nobody doing anything .
as bush sat in that florida classroom , was he wondering if maybe he should have shown up to work more often ?
should he have held at least one meeting since taking office to discuss the threat of terrorism with his head of counter terrorism ?
or maybe mr. bush was wondering why he had cut terrorism funding from the fbl .
or perhaps he just should have read the security briefing that was given to him on august 6 , 2001 that said that osama bin laden was planning to attack america by hijacking airplanes .
or maybe he wasn' t worried about the terrorist threat because the title of the report was too vague .
i believe the title of the report was
' bin laden determined to attack inside the united states . '
a report like that might make some men jump , but as in days passed ,
george w. just went fishing .
as the minutes went by ,
george bush continued to sit in the classroom .
was he thinking ,
' i' ve been hanging out with the wrong crowd .
which one of them screwed me ?
was it the man my daddy' s friends delivered a lot of weapons to ?
was it that group of religious fundamentalists who visited my state when i was governor ?
or was it the saudis ?
damn , it was them .
i think i' d better blame it on this guy . '
in the days following september 11th , all commercial and private airline traffic was grounded .
the faa has taken action to close all of the airports in the united states .
even grounding the president' s father , former president bush , on a flight forced to land in milwaukee .
dozens of travelers stranded , among them ,
ricky martin , due to perform at tonight' s latin grammy awards .
not even ricky martin would fly .
but really , who wanted to fly ?
no one .
except the bin ladens .
we had some airplanes authorized at the highest levels of our government to fly to pick up osama bin laden' s family members and others from saudi arabia ; transport them out of this country .
it turns out that the white house approved planes to pick up the bin ladens and numerous other saudis .
at least six private jets and nearly two dozen commercial plans carried the saudis and the bin ladens out of the u. s. after september 13th .
in all , 142 saudis , including 24 members of the bin laden family , were allowed to leave the country .
osama has always been portrayed as the bad apple , the black sheep of the family and that they cut off all relationship with him around 1994 .
in fact things are much more complicated than that .
you mean osama has had contact with other family members ?
that' s right .
in the summer of 2001 just before 9/ 11 one of osama' s sons got married in afghanistan and several family members showed up at the wedding .
bin ladens ?
that' s right .
they have not cut off completely ; that' s really an exaggeration .
we now welcome to larry king live , it' s good to see him again ,
prince bandar , the ambassador of the kingdom of saudi arabia to the united states .
we have about twenty four members of bin laden' s family and uh ...
here ?
in america .
students and his majesty felt it was not fair for those innocent people to be subjected to any harm .
on the other hand , we understood had the high emotions .
so in cooperation with the fbl , we got them out .
this is retired fbi agent jack cloonan .
before 9/ 11 he was a senior agent on the joint fbl cla al qaeda task force .
i as an investigator would not want these people to have left ...
i think in the case of the bin laden family
i think it would have been prudent , hand the subpoenas out , have ' em come in , get on the record .
you know , get on the record .
that' s the proper procedure .
yeah ...
how many people were pulled off of the airlines after that coming into the country who were what , that were from the middle east or they fit a very general picture .
we held hundreds of , ...
we held hundreds and i ... ... weeks and months at a time .
did the authorities do anything when the bin ladens tried to leave the country ?
no , they were identified at the airport , they looked at their passports , and they were identified .
but that' s what would happen to you or i if we were ...
exactly .
exactly .
so a little interview ,
nothing
i don' t know about you , but usually when the police can' t find a murderer don' t they usually want to talk to the family members to find out where they think he might be ?
you have no idea where your husband might be ?
well if you hear anything let us know , will ya ?
you willing to come downtown and give us a statement ?
this gonna take a while ?
' you got the time . '
mine' s worth money , yours isn' t ...
i asked you a question .
' you' re gonna answer ' em not ask ' em . '
now listen to me cop i pay your salary .
' alright , sit down , i' m gonna earn it . '
yeah , that' s how cops do it .
what was goin ' on here ?
i think we need to know a lot more about that .
that needs to be the subject of a significant investigation .
what happened ?
how did it happen ?
why did it happen ?
and who authorized it ?
try to imagine what those poor bastards were feeling when they jumped outta that building to their death .
those those those young guys and cops ran into that building , never asked a question , and they' re dead .
and their families lives are ruined .
and they' il never have peace .
and if i had to inconvenience a member of the bin laden family with a subpoena or a grand jury do you think i' d lose any sleep over it ?
not for a minute , mike .
and no one would question it .
no , it' s right ...
not even the biggest civil libertarians ?
no , no .
no one would question it .
it' s just , ya know , you get a lawyer and fine , counselor fine .
mr. bin laden this is why i' m asking you ; it' s not because i think it' s you' re anything ,
i just want to ask you the questions that i would anybody .
right .
and that' s all .
none of this made any sense .
can you imagine in the days after the oklahoma city terrorist bombing president clinton helping to arrange a trip out of the country for the mcveigh family ?
what do you think would have happened to clinton if that had been revealed ?
bandar , do you know the bin laden family ?
i do very well .
what are they like ?
they' re really lovely human beings ; uh , he is the only one i never , i don' t know well .
i met him only once .
what was the circumstance under which you met him ?
this is ironic , and uh , in the mid 80s , if you remember , we and the united states were supporting the mujhadeen to liberate afghanistan from the soviets .
he came to thank me for my efforts to bring the americans , our friends , to help us against the atheists , he said the communists .
he came to thank you for helping bring america to help him ?
and now he may be responsible for bombing america .
absolutely .
what do you make of him when you met him ?
i was not impressed , to be honest with you .
not impressed .
no .
he was simple and quiet guy .
hmmm .
a simple and quiet guy .
whose family who just happened to have a business relationship with the family of george w. bush .
is that what he was thinking about ?
because if the public knew this it wouldn' t look very good .
was he thinking ,
' you know , i need a big black marker . '
in early 2004 , in a speech during the new hampshire primary ,
i called george w. bush a deserter for his time in the texas national guard .
in response , the white house released his military records in the hopes of disproving the charge .
what bush didn' t know is that i already had a copy of his military records uncensored obtained in the year 2000 .
and there is one glaring difference between the records released in 2000 and those he released in 2004 .
a name had been blacked out .
in 1972 , two airmen were suspended for failing to take their medical examination .
one was george w. bush .
and the other was james r. bath .
in 2000 the documents show both names .
but in 2004 bush and white house had bath' s name blacked out .
why didn' t bush want the press and public to see bath' s name on his military records ?
perhaps he was worried that the american people would find out that at one time james r. bath was the texas money manager for the bin ladens .
bush and bath had become good friends when they both served in the texas national guard .
after they were discharged , when bush' s dad was head of the cla ,
bath opened up his own aviation business , after selling a plane to a man named salem bin laden , heir to the second largest fortune in saudi arabia : the saudi bin laden group .
w at that time was just starting out in the world as a business man .
because he' s a guy who s always tried to emulate his father , uh , he decided to go into the oil business .
he founded an oil company , a drilling company , out of west texas called arbusto , which was very very good at drilling dry holes that nothing came out of .
but the question has always been where did this money come from ?
now his dad was rich .
his dad could have done this for him .
but his dad didn' t do this for him .
there' s no indication that his daddy wrote a check to start him off in this company .
so where did george w. bush get his money ?
one person who did invest in him was
james r. bath .
bush' s good friend james bath was hired by the bin laden family to manage their money in texas and invest in businesses .
and james bath himself in turn invested in george w. bush .
bush ran arbusto into the ground , as he did every other company he was involved in .
until finally one of his companies was bought by harken energy .
and they gave him a seat on their board .
harken , spectrum 7 , arbusto drilling , all of the bush companies .
whenever they got into trouble there were these angel investors who flowed money into the companies .
so the question is why would saudis with all the oil in the world go around the globe to invest in this lousy oil company ?
and the thing is it had one big asset ,
harken , harken had one thing going for it which is that george w. bush was on its board of directors at a time when his father was
president of the united states .
when you' re the president' s son and you' ve got unlimited access combined with some credentials from a prior campaign , in washington dc people tend to respect that ;
i mean , access is power and , uh ,
i can find my dad , talk to him any time of the day .
yes , it helps to be the presidents son .
especially when you' re being investigated by the securities and exchange commission .
in 1990 when m. bush was a director of harken energy he received this memo from company lawyers warning directors not to sell stock if they had unfavorable information about the company .
one week later he sold $848, 000 worth of harken stock .
two months later ,
harken announced losses of more than $23 million dollars .
the james baker law partner who helped bush beat the wrap rom the sec was a man by the name of robert jordan who , when george w became president , was appointed ambassador to saudi arabia .
after the harken debacle the friends of bush' s dad got him a seaton another board of a company owned by the carlyle group .
we wanted to look at which companies um actually gained from september 11th .
turned up this company carlyle group .
the carlyle group is a multinational conglomerate that invests in heavily government regulated industries
like telecommunications , health care , and particularly defense .
both george w. bush and george h. w. bush worked for the carlyle group , the same company that counted the bin laden family among its investors .
the carlyle group was holding its annual investor conference on the morning of september 11th in the ritz carlton hotel in washington , dc .
james baker likely , john major , definitely george h. w. bush though he left the morning of september 11th .
shapfi bin laden , who is osama bin laden' s half brother , um , and was in town to look after his family' s investments in the carlyle group all of them together in one room watching as the um , the planes hit the towers .
and then in fact the bin laden family was invested in one of their defense funds which , ironically , meant as the united states started increasing its defense spending , um , the bin laden family stood to gain from those investments through the carlyle group .
of all the weapons companies it owned , the carlyle group was in essence the 11th largest defense contractor in the united states .
it owned united defense , makers of the bradley armored fighting vehicle .
september 11th guaranteed that united defense was going to have a very good year .
just six weeks after 9/ 11 ,
carlyle filed to take united defense public , and in december , made a one day profit of $237 million dollars .
but sadly , with so much attention focused on the bin laden family being important carlyle investors , the bin ladens eventually had to withdraw .
bush' s dad though stayed on as senior advisor to carlyle' s asia board for another two years .
as unassuming as it seems , uh , to , uh , to , to know that george h. w. bush was meeting with the bin laden family while osama was a wanted terrorist , um , well before september 11th , it' s very discomforting for americans to know that .
george h. w. bush is a man who has obviously incredible reach into the white house .
um , he receives daily cla briefings , which is the right of any ex president , but very few ex presidents actually exercise that right uh , he does .
and i think in a very real way they are benefiting from the confusion that arises when george h. w.
bush visits saudi arabia on behalf of carlyle and meets with the royal family and meets with the bin laden family .
is he representing the united states of america or is he representing an investment firm in the united states of america , or is he representing both ?
this company' s about money .
it' s not about conspiracies to run the world or engineer political maneuvering , things like that ; it' s about making money and it' s about making a lot of money .
and they have done very well .
i want you on the record on this question .
in the white house view there is no ethical conflict in former president bush and former secretary of state jim baker using their contacts with world leaders to represent one of the most well known military arms dealers , the carlyle group ?
the president has full faith that his family will conform with all proper ethics laws , all ethics laws , and will act properly in their conduct .
okay , so let' s say one group of people ,
like the american people , pay you $400, 000 a year to be president of the united states .
but then another group of people invest in you , your friends , and their related businesses $1 . 4 billion dollars over a number of years .
who you gonna like ?
who' s your daddy ?
because that' s how much the saudi royals and their associates have given the bush family .
their friends .
and their related businesses in the past three decades .
is it rude to suggest that when the bush family wakes up in the morning they might be thinking about what' s best for the saudis instead of what' s best for you ?
or me ?
' cuz $1 . 4 billion doesn' t just buy a lot of flights out of the country , it buys a lot of love .
sooner or later this special relationship with a regime that amnesty international condemns as a wide spread human rights violator would come back to haunt the bushes .
now , after 9/ 11 , it was an embarrassment and they preferred that no one ask any questions .
the investigation should have begun on september 12th ; there' s no reason why it shouldn' t have .
three thousand people were dead , it was a murder , and it should have gotten started immediately .
first , bush tried to stop congress from setting up its own 9/ 11 investigation .
it' s important for us to not reveal how we collect information ; that' s what the enemy wants .
and we' re fighting an enemy .
when he couldn' t stop congress , he then tried to stop an independent 9/ 11 commission from being formed .
the president' s position was a break from history .
independent investigations were launched within days of pearl harbor and president kennedy' s assassination .
but when congress did complete its own investigation , the bush white house censored twenty eight pages of the report .
the president is being pressed by all sides to declassify the report .
us officials tell nbc news most of the secret sources involve saudi arabia .
we have given extraordinary cooperation with chairmen kean and hamilton .
we haven' t gotten the materials we needed , and we certainly haven' t gotten them in a timely fashion .
the deadlines we set have passed .
will you testify before the commission ?
this commission ?
testify , i mean , i' d be glad to visit with them .
what it will do is hold this in my heart , it has been in my heart since september 11th .
i lost my husband , 15 years .
i' m now by myself .
um , i need to know what happened to him .
i know what i got back from the autopsy .
that man was my life and i have no plan .
i' d taken a class and they asked me what was i gonna do in the next five years .
and if i' m not doing something with this ,
i don' t know what reason i have to live .
so , it' s very important .
very important .
' kay .
ignored by the bush administration , more than 500 relatives of 9/ 11 victims filed suit against saudi royals and others .
the lawyers the saudi defense minister hired to fight the 9/ 11 families ?
the law firm of bush family confidante ,
james a. baker .
so right here in the center of three important american landmarks , uh , the watergate hotel and office building , the kennedy center over there , and uh , the embassy of saudi arabia .
wow .
how much money do the saudis have invested in america , roughly ?
uh , i' ve heard figures inside of $860 billion dollars .
860 billion .
billion .
that' s a lot of money .
and uh , what percentage of our economy is that ?
that seems like a lot .
well , in terms of investments on wall street ,
american equities , it' s roughly six or seven percent of america .
they own a fairly good slice of america .
citigroup , citibank is the largest stock held by the saudis .
aoltimewarner has big saudi investors .
so i read where like the saudis have a trillion dollars in our banks of their money .
what would happen if like one day they just pulled that trillion dollars out ?
a trillion dollars , that would be an enormous blow to the economy .
could i speak with you for a moment please , sir ?
uh yeah , sure .
good , how are you doing ?
good
steve with the secret service .
we' re just ascertaining information regarding , are you making a documentary regarding the saudi arabian embassy ?
uh , no .
i am doing a documentary .
and part of it is about saudi arabia .
even though we were nowhere near the white house , for some reason the secret service had shown up to ask us what we were doing standing across the street from the saudi embassy .
we' re not here to cause any trouble or anything .
uh , ya know , is that ...
that' s fine .
just wanted to get some information on what was going on .
yeah yeah yeah ,
i didn' t realize the secret service guards foreign embassies .
uh , not usually , no sir .
no no , do they give you any trouble ?
the saudis ?
uh , no comment on that one ,
i' m not going to answer .
uh , okay ,
i' il take that as a yes .
it turns out that saudi prince bandar is perhaps the best protected ambassador in the us .
the us state department provides him with a six man security detail .
considering how he and his family , and the saudi elite own seven percent of america , it' s probably not a bad idea .
bandar bush .
two nights after september 11th ,
george bush invited bandar bush to the white house for a private dinner and talk .
even though bin laden was a saudi , and saudi money had funded al qaeda , and fifteen of the nineteen hijackers were saudis , here was the saudi ambassador casually dining with the president .
on september 13th , what were they talking about ?
were they commiserating ?
or comparing notes ?
why would bandar' s government block american investigators from talking to the relatives of the fifteen hijackers ?
why would saudi arabia become reluctant to freeze the hijackers ' assets ?
the two of them rocked out on the truman balcony so that bandar could smoke a cigar and have a drink .
in the distance , across the potomac , was the pentagon , partially in ruins .
i wonder if mr. bush told prince bandar not to worry because he already had a plan in motion .
you come in september 12th , ready to plot what response we take to al qaeda .
let me talk to you about the response that you got from top administration officials .
on that day , what did the president say to you ?
the president , in a very intimidating way ,
left us me and my staff with the clear indication that he wanted us to come back with the word that there was an iraqi hand behind 9/ 11 because they had been planning to do something about iraq from before the time they came to office .
did he ask about any other nations other than iraq ?
no .
no no no .
no .
not at all .
it was iraq , saddam , find out , get back to me .
and were his questions more about iraq than about al qaeda ?
absolutely .
absolutely .
he didn' t ask my about al qaeda .
and the reaction you got that day from the defense secretary ,
donald rumsfeld ?
and his assistant , paul wolfowitz ?
well , don rumsfeld said , uh , when we talked about bombing the al qaeda infrastructure in afghanistan , he said there were no good targets in afghanistan ,
let' s bomb iraq .
and we said but iraq had nothing to do with this .
and that didn' t seem to make much difference .
and the reason they had to do afghanistan first was it was obvious that al qaeda had attacked , and it was obvious that al qaeda was in afghanistan .
the american people wouldn' t have stood by if we had done nothing on afghanistan .
the united states began bombing afghanistan just four weeks after 9/ 11 .
mr. bush said he was doing so because the taliban government of afghanistan had been harboring bin laden .
we will smoke ' em out of their holes .
we' re gonna smoke ' em out .
smoke ' em out .
smoke him out of his cave .
let' s rush him and smoke him out .
for all his tough talk ,
bush really didn' t do much .
but what they did was slow and small .
they put only 11, 000 troops into afghanistan there are more police here in manhattan , more police here in manhattan than there are us troops in afghanistan .
basically the president botched the response to 9/ 11 .
he should have gone right after bin laden .
the us special forces didn' t get into the area where bin laden was for two months .
two months ?
a mass murderer who attacked the united states was given a two month head start ?
who in their right mind would do that ?
anybody say " nice shot ?
nice shot .
hell of a shot .
or was the war in afghanistan really about something else ?
perhaps the answer was in houston , texas .
in 1997 while george w. bush was governor of texas , a delegation of taliban leaders from afghanistan flew to houston to meet with unocal executives to discuss the building of a pipeline through afghanistan bringing natural gas from the caspian sea .
and who got a caspian sea drilling contract the same day unocal signed the pipeline deal ?
halliburton .
the point of view of the us government is this was kind of a magic pipeline , um , because it could serve so many purposes .
and who else stood to benefit from the pipeline ?
bush' s number one campaign contributor ,
kenneth lay , and the good people of enron .
only the british press covered this trip .
then in 2001 , just 5 1/ 2 months before 9/ 11 , the bush administration welcomed a special taliban envoy to tour the united states to help improve the image of the taliban government .
you have imprisoned the women ...
it' s a horror , let me tell you .
i' m very sorry to your husband ; he might have a very difficult time with you .
here is the taliban official visiting our state department to meet with us officials .
why on earth did the bush administration allow a taliban leader to visit the united states knowing that the taliban were harboring the man who bombed the uss cole and our african embassies ?
well , i guess 9/ 11 put a stop to that .
when the invasion of afghanistan was complete we installed its new president ,
hamid karzai .
who was hamid karzai ?
he was a former advisor to unocal .
bush also appointed as his envoy to afghanistan zalmay khalilzad who was also a former unocal advisor .
i guess you can probably see where this is leading .
faster than you can say black gold texas tea ,
afghanistan signed an agreement with her neighboring countries to build a pipeline through afghanistan carrying natural gas from the caspian sea .
oh , and the taliban ?
uh , they mostly got away .
as did osama bin laden and most of al qaeda .
terror is bigger than one person .
and he' s just , he' s , he' s a , he' s a person who' s now been marginalized , so , i , i don' t know where he is , nor ... and i just don' t spend that much time on it ,
ellie , to be honest with ya .
didn' t spend much time on it ?
what kinda president was he ?
i' m a war president .
i make decisions here in the oval office , uh , in foreign policy matters with war on my mind .
with the war in afghanistan over and bin laden forgotten , the war president had a new target : the american people .
we' ve got an unusual terror warning from the feds to tell you about .
fox news has obtained an fbi bulletin that warns terrorists could use pen guns
just like in a james bond filled with poison as weapons .
good evening everyone ,
america is on high alert tonight just four days before christmas . ... a possible terrorist threat . ... as bad as or worse than 9/ 11 .
but where ?
how ?
there' s nothing specific to report .
be on the lookout for model airplanes packed with explosives .
and the fbi is reporting ferries may be considered particularly at risk for hijacking .
could these cattle be a target for terrorists ?
fear works ?
fear does work , yes .
you could make people do anything if they' re afraid .
and how do you make them afraid ?
well you make them afraid by creating an aura of endless threat .
they played us like an organ .
they raised the le , the orange and up to red and then they dropped it back to orange .
i mean , they , they give these mixed messages which were crazy making .
the world has changed after september the 11th .
it' s changed because we' re no longer safe .
fly and enjoy america' s great , uh , destination spots .
we' ve entered what may very well prove to be the most dangerous security environment the world' s known .
take your families and enjoy life .
terrorists are doing everything they can to gain even deadlier means of striking us .
get down to disney world in florida .
it' s like training a dog ; ya tell him to sit down or ya tell him to roll over at the same time , the dog doesn' t know what to do .
well the american people are being treated like that .
it was really very very skillfully and , and ugly in what they did .
we must stop the terror .
i call upon all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers .
thank you .
now watch this drive .
they will continue , in my view , as long as this administration' s in charge .
every once in a while still leading everybody to be afraid , just in case you forgot .
it' s not gonna go down to green or blue .
it' s never gonna get there .
there clearly is no way that anyone can live constantly on edge like that .
the harsh reality facing american families today is that they' re not as safe as they used to be .
drug dealers and users looking for their next fix .
gangs who roam the streets in search of their next victim .
and the growing threat of terrorists means the need for protection is ever greater .
and now , that protection is here .
zytech engineering llc has developed and tested a safe , highly affordable to the average american citizen , the kind of protection formerly attainable only by the wealthy or powerful .
heck , you can be sitting in here drinking your finest bordeaux while chaos is erupting outside .
every family in america should prepare itself for a terrorist attack .
now to escaping from a skyscraper .
john rivers is the ceo of the executive chute corporation .
good morning to you , john .
