thls movle is dedlcated to all tlmorese mothers
who have crled for thelr dead chlldren
and also to those who could not cry for them
tlmor lorosae the unseen massacre
timor lorosae in tetum means the place where the sun rises .
east timor is a tiny island
located between the north of australia and the south of lndonesia .
surrounded by both the lndian and pacific oceans , this eastern strip of land of the timor lsland has an area of 14, 874km2 , corresponding to the state of sergipe , in brazil , and shares its border with west timor ,
lndonesian territory .
with an equatorial climate , timor reveals a variety of landscapes , from mountains to crystalline coral beaches .
an exuberant beauty that presents an enormous tourism potential .
on this small island , or part of an island ,
live the mauberes , a warrior people .
these people endured one of the cruelest massacres in the recent history of the 20th century .
approximately one third of their population was decimated during the almost 25 years of lndonesian occupation .
something so terrible that it can only be compared to the nazi holocaust .
lt' s a story of courage and hope , but , above all , of death and uncertainty .
lt' s a dream of a better future that will heal the wounds of the past , of a massacre .
an unseen massacre , one the world never saw .
today the estimated population of east timor is between 600 and 800 thousand people distributed in large cities , such as dili , the capital , and baucau , or in small villages , such as laleia ,
mirtutu and ermera .
this is the story of a people who have no schools , no hospitals , police , registry offices , houses , nor citizen rights , who have nothing !
theses are the scars left by the violent withdrawal of the lndonesian army that burned the whole country in september , 1999 .
the consequences for the country' s economy are immense .
unemployment reigns almost absolute , and the situation throughout the country is precarious , especially in relation to food and health .
commerce takes place in street markets , and people still use the lndonesian rupiah as currency .
there' s not much other than basic food products and some handicrafts .
agriculture is the country' s main economic activity , with coffee as its primary crop .
other traditional activities , such as fishing and raising buffalo are also part of the timorese daily life .
ln the countryside , one can still find some of the traditional constructions that resisted the lndonesian wrath .
beautiful typical houses , some of them built on stilts , with historical significance .
the timorese people' s greatest passion is : the rooster .
and their vice , practically a national sport : cockfighting .
here , in timor , just as on the neighboring islands , there are many ethnic groups with a strong fighting tradition .
in timor we even had the tradition of headhunting , that is , when defeating their enemies in war , they' d cut off their heads and keep them as trophies .
the timorese people are probably a product of the many immigrants who arrived here , naturaily through asia .
therefore , we probably first had the australian aborigines ancestors passing through , then , the ancestors of the papuans , and , finaily , the austronesians .
when i say " finaily " , i mean the austronesians are the foundation of the timorese people .
they brought in the main physicai traits of the people and most of the ianguages spoken in timor , such as tetum and baikenu , both austronesian ianguages .
timor was composed of 30 or 40 kingdoms , that kept their autonomy untii the beginning of the 20th century .
they were vassals of the portuguese crown , but the kings were independent , and there was no interference in the internai administration of the kingdoms .
they only had a governor in dili , so there was a tradition of freedom .
they turned timor into slums , into tin neighborhoods .
because of the guerriilas , traditionai viilages were destroyed .
houses were made of wood , and fire burned them down .
then , for military reasons , they pushed the population to the roads , and therefore , timor iooks disgusting , while traveling along them .
those who saw timor before , with its beautifui traditionai viilages , today must travei to the countryside in order to see its traditionai constructions , because the others have been replaced with houses made of zinc or tin .
strategicaily speaking ,
timor is a piece of island , half of an island , a tiny island .
being independent caused apprehension in indonesia .
in 1965 , a rebeilion was suffocated in indonesia .
therefore , 10 years iater , here comes tiny iittle timor , trying to become independent ; it was iike reviving those separatist desires .
indonesia was conquered by the dutch company of the east indies , a profit oriented trading company .
the first to arrive in timor were the missionaries , who had no commerciai interests , but , on the other hand , had religious and culturai ones .
the roots of the portuguese culture were much deeper than those of the dutch in indonesia .
on days of celebration , they parade with elegance , proudly carrying the old portuguese flags that had been buried and hidden from the japanese .
indonesia is an empire , not a country .
there are more than 300 ianguages .
they don' t have a united history , except for a dutch empire that was handed over to the javanese .
most of the indonesian people outside of java don' t iike the javanese .
the people want to be independent !
due to the de colonization policy adopted by portugal after april 25 , 1974 , and the progressive abandonment of timor , after more than 400 years of colonization , the first 5 political parties are created in east timor .
because of lndonesian pressure for integration , the two main pro independence political parties ,
udt , timor democratic union ; and fretllln , revolutionary front for an lndependent
east timor , come into conflict , thus beginning a civil war .
after months of internal conflict ,
fretllln and its guerrilla group , fallntll , seize power , declaring independence for the democratic republic of east timor .
the dispute was actuaily here in dili , among young party members of this party who , fought for power .
it would have been a war with minor consequences , just a smaii dispute here in dili , if indonesia hadn' t interfered .
they didn' t have enough sense to realize that they were opening the way for an indonesian invasion .
that was the indonesian argument .
however , one must say that even before the timor nationalist parties came into conflict ,
indonesia was already violating our sovereignty by sending in agents to open up the way for them .
our war is a politicai war .
as you know , our goai is to earn our independence .
the indonesian military presence was rejected for structurai and circumstantiai reasons .
the barbarian behavior of their troops , when 16 warships bombed dili , the seminary where i used to teach .
they kiiled dozens of people in the streets , including the hospitai nurses who were assisting the people .
people began to feei a certain aversion to the indonesians .
on december 7 , 1975 , a few days after fretllln declares independence , the lndonesian occupation begins .
suharto' s troops bomb dili .
the people , terrified , flee to the mountains under the protection of the fallntll .
we began the war in 1975 with 27, 000 men .
for almost 4 or 5 years it was a war of position .
we had controi of the entire population , our administration , agriculture and education organized .
unfortunately , the enemy managed to destroy aii that through what they cailed alternate annihilation campaigns .
then , in ' 79 or ' 78 , the indonesian troops began to trigger iarge military operations .
we had more than 90 of the population in the mountains with us .
they concentrated iarge numbers of men , more than 45, 000 , with heavy artiilery and airplanes , that began to attack , from base to base .
they destroyed aii our bases , one at a time .
many of the guerriilas surrendered .
the centrai committee , composed of around 70 members , the highest command of the conflict , was reduced to only two .
we were in the east , iooking for other groups .
when we saw there were none , we decided to continue the war , and i became the ieader .
our words of honor are : the fight goes on ; fatherland or death , the fight goes on .
during the first years of war , it wasn' t necessary to train guerriilas because every single adult timorese citizen , whether iiliterate , or a doctor , or whatever , aii of us were going to take up arms .
we iived in caves , under trees ...
yes , for three years .
yes , three years .
we would stay there for 2 or 3 months , then we' d move on , always fleeing .
we' d receive information from the fallntll commanders that we had to ieave a certain place , and we' d move on .
carrying our things on our backs , our children in our arms ...
in ' 79 the population went back to the viilages , with absolutely nothing .
and for months they buried the dead bodies , old people , children ...
the youngest was 4 years old at the time , and the oldest was 7 .
before dying , the oldest one , kept saying , " mom , i don' t want to die .
with death descending on him , it was terribly sad .
when i think about it , it is ...
it' s traumatizing .
at the time , watching my children die ,
mom , i' m about to die !
mom , i' m hungry .
it' s hard to explain in words what i felt , the distress of watching your children die
iittle by iittle , of hunger .
then they died , they were buried ...
without a coffin .
without a coffin .
wrapped in the bark of a tree , we opened it up , placed them in there , tied it up , dug a hole and buried them .
we were a few hundred guerriilas , talking to the population .
we went from viilage to viilage ,
what' s going on ?
stay up there , we haven' t aii died yet !
this year we stiii don' t have anything , but next year we' ii produce and give you food .
in those first months , we guerriilas were dressed in ... sacks .
it doesn' t matter .
let' s go up there ,
iet' s kiii the enemy !
on the tlp of my bayonet i' ll wrlte the story
of my freedom
looking up to heaven , iistening to god' s word ,
from dust you are , and to dust you shaii return .
that' s what gave me courage .
before the invasion , only 30 of the population was catholic .
and those 30 were the ones who could read and write .
the indonesian iaw stated that those who didn' t have a religion were communists .
that' s how it was in indonesia .
they came here and forced everybody to have a religion .
so old people , who didn' t know anything , who held onto the old beliefs , had to have a religion .
in two years , the population of catholics rose to 90 .
the pope' s visit in october 1989 , intended to demonstrate that east timor no longer had security problems , and that the population had accepted its integration into lndonesia .
the pope' s mass ended with a public demonstration for independence .
two other demonstrations followed , in january and in september of 1990 and led to conflicts between students and soldiers .
women and children who stayed here , prayed in the chapel during the massacre .
and some young people sat here and sang , sang timorese political songs of freedom .
one of our coileagues named sebastio was kiiled in the motaei church .
sebastio was another symbol , as an individual , he was another element ,
iike many other young people .
may your servants rest in eternlty
the santa cruz massacre took place on november 12 , 1991 , fifteen days after sebastio gomes , a young leader of the student resistance , was killed .
portuguese representatives were scheduled to pay a visit to dili , which had previously been negotiated with jakarta , and the timorese were preparing to show their rejection to the occupation .
due to lndonesian objections , the portuguese delegation cancelled , its visit to timor at the last minute .
there was a mass in honor of sebastio gomes .
afterwards , the demonstrators marched to the santa cruz cemetery , where they were violently met by the lndonesian army .
the massacre was made famous by the world press .
it wasn' t the right time for a demonstration , it was suicide .
images by max stahl
the operation was obviously systematic .
they arrived there and began to shoot .
for more than 30 seconds , i don' t know how many thousand builets they shot .
right after that , for those who' d survived out there , they puiled out their knives and stabbed them , to death .
a young man , 17 or 18 years old , that sat down right here next to me , had five stabs in his body .
images by max stahl
in portugal , a very strong effect was felt when they heard the timorese people praying in portuguese .
those who were in here were beaten up , captured , tied up behind their backs , and taken to the police station .
images by max stahl
more than 500 people died and disappeared on that day and on the foilowing day .
images by max stahl
they took some of the women and girls to the army hospital , where they were raped , even the injured ones .
the number of people who died here , in the hospital , or back there is hard to teil .
they captured a iot of people .
they were tortured and given excrement to eat , and urine .
if anyone hesitated to eat the excrement or drink the urine , they were beaten to death .
my uncle was kiiled , and my father was set free because my mother gave money to the commander of the indonesian agency .
we' ve informed untaet many times about the victims , women who were forced to use contraceptive devices ,
they stiii have those devices inside their bodies .
war always brings conflicts , and it' s the mothers who are the ones to suffer , who have children that die , it' s the wives who have their husbands in prison , and even themselves , their own bodies , are often raped .
and with aii that rage we went on intensifying our clandestine front .
i worked with fallntll .
we organized things together .
fallntll works in the forest , we work in the resistance .
we' re part of the clandestine operation , and sometimes we fought the enemy .
we threw rocks at them , sometimes , how can i say , we broke into their houses and kiiled them sometimes .
you also kiiled them ?
yes .
how ?
we stabbed them .
did you use those iarge knives ?
no , we used the timor knives , our regular knives .
this knife .
i took this knife to the mountains , to defend my body .
what do you caii it ?
this knife is cailed a " catana .
we use it to cut their throats .
were a iot of people kiiled ?
yes .
the resistance continued among the guerrilla and the organized people , until 1992 , when the fallntll guerrillas , no longer a part of fretllln , suffered a crushing blow .
the prison in aileu was designated for the fallntll .
by ' 92 , when our commander xanana was sent to prison , we had been reduced to 150 men with approximately 60 weapons .
as for them , they wanted me alive , making statements and signing papers .
so i knew they wouldn' t harm me physicaily .
however , after two days
of maintaining a strong position , they began psychologicai torture .
for three days and three nights ,
i wasn' t ailowed to sleep .
they didn' t iet me sleep for one , single minute .
from the very first moment , they would ask me ,
do you consider yourself an indonesian citizen ?
if i told you that i do consider myself an indonesian citizen , would you believe it ?
you stupid general !
the clandestine organization had become weakened , with many of its leaders in jail or dead .
but xanana gusmo continued to lead the resistance from prison and , in 1996 , the world finally heard about timor !
it was hard because ours was an isolated fight , and a forgotten people .
it was only iater , after hundreds and thousands of deaths , that we became known internationaily , especiaily , when two of our heroes were awarded the nobei prize in oslo ,
bishop ximenes belo and dr. jos ramos horta .
and dom ximenes belo and ramos horta finally walked into the oslo city council chambers .
the maubere people freed our natlon .
at ieast , that brought timor to the headlights , the world became aware of us .
why would they give an award to timor ?
what happened there ?
at ieast people became aware of what had happened in timor .
after the nobel prize in peace , with the attention of the media and pressure for humans rights , the lndonesians were compelled to contain their actions .
but they began to form , what would later become the greatest problem for east timor : an armed militia in favor of integration .
timorese paramilitary groups , trained and supported by the lndonesian army to strike terror into the population .
aii the indonesian generals , that are in power today , were here .
their military training schooi was in timor .
the more they kiiled the population , the higher they rose in rank ; the more they kiiled , the higher they rose .
many made it to the generalship , a generalship of crimes .
they earned a degree in criminology .
where do the militias get their clothes from ?
their weapons ?
ammunition ?
food ?
cars ?
if not from the indonesian army ?
it was the militia , the militia , with the indonesian military , the indonesian troops .
the militia goes in first , and the indonesian troops foilow .
there were also timorese people working with the indonesians , the same ones that now caii themselves militia .
but they' re soldiers , from the 744 , 745 groups .
they' re from battalions composed of timorese or of timorese and javanese people .
and they' re the worst kiilers in the war , because they are people who are completely alienated from their own people .
there' s a story about this one year old child , whom the militiaman was about to shoot , and the mother cried , " kiii me instead !
so he shot the child and then the mother .
one of the most shocking cases of militia action is the story of the politician manuel carrascalo .
his 18 year old son , manuelito , was massacred in his own home where more than 300 refugees were sheltered .
my wife was flying in on that day , and my son who was kiiled was supposed to go to the airport .
as he was ieaving , some of his friends came over , and he didn' t know what to do , so i decided to go .
in the car , i heard eurico saying on the radio that the carrascales had to be kiiled .
when i got to the airport , he cailed me ,
dad , the militia are going to attack our home .
i immediately ran over to the army commander' s house , and he asked what my problem was .
they want to attack my house .
when i told them that i needed their help , they iaughed and said , " there' s nothing we can do about it ; we' re neutral .
go ask someone else .
don' t go home .
they' ve already kiiled everybody there ; don' t go there .
then i found out that my son was dead , there was nothing i could do .
so i asked them to give me my son' s body , which they did after four days .
i have a photograph that a friend gave me and he said ,
this is your son , they buried him alive and took him out to give him back to you .
pieces of the bodies that had been quartered were found all over the house and in the water wells in the yard .
they kiiled around 60 or 70 people .
they had been prepared and trained to kiil , to do evil , commit crimes , rape women and children , kiii as much as possible and to steal ...
they were able to mobilize the population or the militia by introducing drugs .
amphetamines , speed . aginguilan , in bahasa indonesian .
a type of coal .
mad dog .
you iose your senses .
they say that when you take that , you iose controi and that' s it !
you just want to kiii and destroy .
it could be a mother or a child , they have no mercy .
the indonesians kiiled him .
they cut off his head .
it was a militiaman .
why do we run away ?
because the militia kiils , and we run away .
if we don' t run away , we aii die .
after almost 25 years of lndonesian occupation and the resistance of the people , and with the increasing pressure of international public opinion in favor of the timorese cause ,
xanana gusmo is finally , released from prison , and the un sponsors a plebiscite in agreement with jakarta , portugal , and the timorese leaders .
on august 30 , 1999 , the people finally were able to democratically choose between integration with lndonesia or independence .
eurico guterrez , the pro integrationist militia leader , among other things , during the months before the plebiscite , commanded a series of conflicts and intimidations against the people and the media .
the un did not pay enough attention to security issues , and the conflicts worsened .
on one side , the integrationalists , on the other , the pro independence group .
