it seems too graphic and unemotional .
i would prefer those grieving people .
for this double page here ?
yes , for the big page .
okay .
there' s already a great deal of misery in it !
i like this sad figure walking through the streets full of destruction ...
fits perfect !
and goma !
one million refugees !
thousands died and couldn' t be buried in the volcanic soil .
there were piles of corpses !
right !
the piles of corpses ...
it' d be great !
there are the piles !
okay .
that looks fantastic !
you think we should use this one ?
i' d enlarge it .
this is also a terrific picture .
the corpses being dumped .
maybe we should put it here .
have it enlarged .
okay , fine .
can you tell that the corpses being dumped aren' t in africa ?
you don' t have to see the corpses ...
you can substitute them with this .
here you feel like you' re being shown some scene in africa .
it starts with africa , and you think it' s an african horror trip .
but his idea is worldwide horror .
it zooms in again ...
then there' s the head ...
then there' s that poor guy .
looks terrific .
okay .
exactly .
then we' il have a look at it .
comma ... now it' s shorter .
after the berlin wall fell , wars changed .
it was no longer nation against nation , but people against people .
instead of high tech weapons ... rifles and machetes .
james nachtwey , the world' s most famous war photographer , has portrayed these new conflicts and victims in a way nobody else ever could .
my son has arrived !
oh , my son !
oh , my son !
oh , you !
please , don' t , " i said .
my brother is deaf and speechless .
but they threw him down from the truck , took his money and killed him .
they cut off my other brother' s arm with a bread knife .
they tore my uncle' s son from his arms , but he wouldn' t let go .
so they shot him in the head , and the child fell on the ground .
they gave me 2 minutes time , and they held an automatic weapon at my neck .
they wanted money .
goodbye .
there are war photographers who are only able to endure the horror of what they' ve seen , experienced and escaped ...
like in vietnam ... by going with the soldiers to the same brothels and bars and drinking the same whisky .
others have become cyncical .
jim is a remarkably uncynical person , which is all the more remarkable , because most people have seen a lot less misery and suffering .
lonely because ...
his experience sets him apart from his colleagues and others .
he has become a different person as a result of those 25 years .
while we talked about that horror in order to comprehend what we saw , the absolute inferno of people who were dead , dying and vomiting , never ending lines of people waiting outside the first aid tents ,
jim said almost nothing .
jim said hello .
he talked about some organizational details , then he said , " i' m going to bed .
and while we needed beer to recover from what we' d seen that day ,
jim had one or two glasses of water before going to bed .
then he got up early the next day to head out alone .
good morning , mister .
good morning .
for me , the early 80s were characterized by my move to new york .
i was a photo editor for geo .
i' d worked for splegel before that , and i had an opportunity to take over the photography department at the new york office of stern .
that was in 1982 .
it was the first time that nachtwey came to stern' s office with a portfolio , and that led to a friendship , a love affair .
both of us had an idea what that new york situation was supposed to lead to .
nachtwey wanted to make a name for himself .
he was very bright ... and determined .
his mind was focused
it was no longer nation against nation , but people against people .
like flight routes .
no winding roads .
there was one distinct , straight , narrow , stony path he had decided to take .
of course , at times i wished it was a warmer , closer , more intense relationship .
but his work was of great importance .
i' il do it .
i' il do it with my pictures .
i' il convince people with my pictures .
nachtwey came back from nicaragua .
he was relaxed and happy .
he brought me a necklace made of shells .
he put it around my neck , and i thought that was great .
i remember the first time i met him .
his hair was parted , his jeans were creased , his shirt was immaculate .
and amidst all that dust and chaos , stood this man i' d never seen before taking his pictures .
he was in no hurry like the others .
he was somehow calm , as suddenly south african photographer
ken oosterbroek was killed next to him .
the ones on their first assignment , and the ones who have been at it too long and think they' re bulletproof .
jim is in danger of seeing himself as bulletproof , in danger of pushing his luck once too often .
as someone who is quite reserved , he needs that kick , that adventure , that flow of adrenalin and the fear of dying , in order to feel alive .
jim is at his best in the most extreme situation .
that' s it .
he keeps on pushing those limits .
tough ...
tough , tough , tough .
it' s also very difficult to talk to nachtwey about the insane situations he has narrowly escaped .
it' s excruciating the way some photographers and journalists never stop talking about what they' ve experienced .
with nachtwey , however , you have to drag everything out of him .
you really have to beg him , and , even then , he tries to avoid making the impression that he' s bragging , showing off .
when he returned from an assignment , and i wanted to grab him and say , " tell me about it .
how was it ?
no , first he had to develop the pictures and then look at them .
i don' t know where he kept everything , or where he keeps it , because the photo material alone , the pictures , are only a fraction of what he has seen , felt , smelled and heard .
he has his own library of suffering in his head .
what were you thinking of ?
don' t you want to talk about it ?
allah is great !
i feel that james nachtwey' s pictures possess the precision of a war surgeon .
he hates to hear that .
he doesn' t want to be compared to a war surgeon , because everyone will then say ,
aha , a cold hearted war surgeon .
he is unrelentless when dealing with people and situations .
this very old fashioned , very unmodern characteristic makes him , at the same time , so untypical , so fascinating .
do i make a living from other people' s suffering ?
has their suffering and misery been ... my ladder to success ?
do i exploit people ?
am i the bloodsucker ?
the vampire with the camera ?
thank you .
