we climbed ' cause it' s fun .
and mainly it was fun .
that' s all we ever did .
and we were fairly anarchic and fairly irresponsible , and we didn' t give a damn about anyone else or anything else , and we just wanted to climb the world .
and it was fun .
it was just brilliant fun .
and every now and then it went wildly wrong .
and then it wasn' t .
got into peru when i was 25 , simon 21 .
but we had done a lot of climbing in the alps .
to climb mountains that have not been climbed before , or a new route at a mountain is what my climbing life had been moving towards .
a friend of us , who' d done an amazing amount of climbing in south america had seen this face in the mid 70' s .
i think he said it would be a challenging day out .
it was the last big mountain face in this range of mountains , that hadn' t been climbed .
there' s a great unknown there .
what' s so compelling is stepping into that unknown .
it was an isolated spot , a 2 days walk from a road .
the mountains all around seemed very big , compared to the mountains i' d seen in the alps .
we eventually reached a spot , on the approach to siula grande .
you couldn' t really take the donkeys any further than this point .
i guess it would be 7 8 km from the bottom of the mountains .
we knew siula grande was at the back , but we didn' t see it .
we' d met this lad called richard hawking in lima .
he' d been travelling on his own .
and i think we said , " why don' t you just join us on our trip ?
i think he said that he didn' t know anything about mountaineering .
i didn' t really know what pot of brew i was in . or quite , what i was letting myself in for .
we wanted richard because when we were on the mountain , if he were at base camp he could look after our kit .
i got to know simon quite well .
i don' t know whether it was because of his personality , or whether it was because he was more forgiving towards me , being a non climber in that environment .
but i found it very hard to get to know joe .
i was much more ambitious about doing it than simon was .
siula grande meant a lot .
we knew , a number of expeditions had failed on it .
if no one had tried , it wouldn' t be quite the same .
it was the the fact that people had tried and failed , so we knew it was hard .
and my feeling was , " well , we' il just do it .
we' re better than them .
since the 1970s people have been trying to climb mountains in the great ranges in what' s called " alpine style " .
and essentially , alpine style means you pack a rucksack full of all your clothing , your food and your climbing equipment , and you start off from a base camp and you try and climb the mountain you' re gonna climb in a single push .
you don' t fix the line of ropes uphill beforehand , you don' t have a set of camps that you stock and come down from .
that' s the purest style and that' s the style that joe and i had climbed siula grande .
it' s a very committing way of climbing , because you have no line of retreat .
if something goes wrong , it can be very very serious .
there' s no rescue , there' s no helicopter rescue and there' s no other people .
there' s no margin for error .
if you get badly hurt , you' i probably die .
i hadn' t seen it from this angle , and it looked steep .
i sort of thought , you know , " christ , that' s big " .
looks harder than i thought and than i expected .
but i was excited .
starting doing it was brilliant .
this is what we live for .
i love the actual movement of climbing .
when you' re climbing well it just feels brilliant .
it' s like a combination between ballet and gymnastics .
it' s that mixture of power and grace .
for me , mountains are the most beautiful places in the world .
when i go into these places i feel an amazing sense of space , an amazing sense of freedom , when i get away from all of the clutter that we have in the world .
i think we surprised ourselves as we got up the icefield about 300m , and got up to a point where the ice is running through rock bands , and you' ve got vertical cascades .
we started intricately climbing through these .
the fact , that you are tied to your partner , means that you put an immense amount of trust in someone else' s skill and ability .
but at some point , you may be thinking ,
for god' s sake , simon , don' t fall here , for god' s sake , don' t fall here
the rope can be something that rather than save your life , could kill you .
if your mate falls off then all this gear rips out , you' re dead , you' re gonna go with him .
if you' re gonna do that sort of climbing at some point you' re gonna have to rely wholly on your partner .
i think we were very pleased at the end of that first day .
we had done a lot of climbing , good climbing .
and we were very confident at that point that we should make it .
that altitude , you dehydrate enormously .
you have to drink a lot of fluid , 4 5 liters a day .
and the only way you can get it , is by melting snow .
everything is so time consuming .
to make a single brew at that altitude takes a very long time ,
you' re perhaps looking at an hour just to make a couple of cups .
for that reason , we perhaps didn' t brew up as much as we should have done but we didn' t have an awful lot of spare gas with us , either .
there' s not a lot of risk in our lives normally now .
and to put an element of risk back into it takes us out of the humdrum .
in that sense , it makes you feel more alive .
i' ve never been that high before , and it' s very very strenuous to climb ice like that .
not only is it technically difficult and unstable and frightening , but your heart is going like crazy because of the altitude .
it would now go very cold indeed .
and we were up 5800 6000m , it was windy .
then it started snowing , and it meant that the whole face was pooring with powdersnow avalanches .
the snow would actually stick on the outside of your clothing .
it would then freeze on top of you , like you' re wearing a suit of armor .
the last section on the face was about 100m of the most nightmarish climbing .
completely unstable powder snow .
no anchors at any point .
it was physically very , very tiring , full body climbing really .
it took us the best part of 5 or 6 hours to climb about 65 meters .
carried on way after it got dark .
i was getting extremely cold , ' cause i was sitting still while simon was trying to climb .
i was getting near hypothermic .
you just knew that if you' d just carried on , regardless , it was gonna go tits up .
so we dug a snow cave .
in the morning , in good weather , we actually saw what we' d been trying to climb .
it was this undeering nightmare of flutings of the finest powder gouged out by snow falling down meringues , and mushrooms , and cornices all over the place .
we' d heard about these strange powder snow conditions you get in the andes , and we' ve never seen it before .
i don' t know the physics that explains why powder snow can stay on such steep slopes .
in the alps it would just slide off if the slope was about 40 degrees .
it is some of the most precarious , unnerving and dangerous climbing i' ve ever done .
we were actually scared , that we would get to an impass , where we couldn' t climb any further up .
because we knew we wouldn' t be able to get back down , not what we' ve already climbed .
we were climbing ourselves into a trap .
and not only that , we could see this 150 meter drop that was waiting for us .
and so it was with great relief that by 14 : 00 , we got onto the north ridge and on the west face .
and we vowed that we didn' t want to go near any of the flutings again .
we were pretty tired , by the time we got onto the ridge ,
i was knackered .
and i remember thinking ,
oh sod it , we' ve done the face ,
now i can' t really be bothered to go all the way up there
and then we thought , " hang on , we' ve come all this way ,
we might as well stand on the top
i don' t particularly like summits , because 80 % of accidents happen on descent .
we decided before we even climbed the face that we were going to come down the north ridge of the mountain , down to a cul between the mountain siula grande and another mountain called yerupaja . and then we' d be able to abseil down the smaller section of the face .
already the clouds were coming in from the east .
big clouds .
we expected this ridge to be quite straightforward , quite an easy way to descend .
we were hoping , we would be able to sort of walk .
and it turned out to be very difficult .
it was horrendous .
vertical on the west side , with the cornices overhanging the west side , and on the east side steep fleetings running down 100m below us .
it was a shock .
and it was quite dangerous .
it all got a bit out of control .
that stage of things .
half an hour to an hour after leaving the summit , we were lost .
we were in the wild now , we couldn' t see anything .
then we got like a little break in the clouds and i saw the ridge , so i started climbing back up to it .
i didn' t know it was the side of the ridge i was on , but it was actually an enormous cornice , an overhang of snow and ice , and i was walking up over the top of it .
i was left hanging , looking down , as all this snow and ice then fell away from me , down the west side of the siula grande .
i got back up on the ridge and shouted then to joe that i' d found the ridge , like that , i said ,
i found the ridge , joe !
we' d hoped to go down that day , but by the time it got dark , we were still very high .
still at 6000m .
and that night , as we made a brew , the gas ran out .
it was pretty obvious the following morning that we descended the worst part of the ridge .
and i was pretty confident that we' d get back down to the base camp that day .
i thought at that stage it was pretty much in the bag i suppose , the whole climb .
i was ahead of simon , and suddenly there was this vertical wall , bisecting the ridge .
i then get on my hands and knees , and hammer both my axes into the ice at the top and then lower myself off the ice cliff .
when you hammer the axe in , you listen to the sound it makes .
and you look at it .
now i was hanging with both axes , right .
i took the hammer out , and what i wanted to do is now place it in the vertical wall .
and i swung , and the pick went in , and it just made a ... just a strange sound .
and i thought , " well , i' il take it out , make a good placement .
so i just wanted to put bona ... dead solid axe placements in .
all the way down .
and i was about to swing at the ice again
the pain is ... came flooding down my thigh and my knee was very , very very painful
the impact drove my lower leg straight through my knee joint .
as the bone went into my tibia it split the tibial plateau straight off and carried on up .
quite wild , the pain now .
i couldn' t cope with it at first .
i just breathed on and it started to go and i can remember looking across to the west and seeing that we were level with the summit of rasac , so i had a height gauge , where we were . and i just thought , " fuck , i can' t have broken my leg " ,
if i have broken my leg i' m dead .
and then the rope went slack .
i knew that meant that simon was coming towards me .
i couldn' t feel any bone under anything .
i brought my hand down , there' s no blood on it , and the pain had gone down a little bit .
and i thought , maybe i was being a bit whacked ,
i' d just torn a ligament or something .
i tried to stand on it
i felt all the bone go , all grating and everything and i knew it was broken then .
the look that he gave to me sticks in my mind
a look of shock and desperation and a sort of terror .
lots of things in a single look .
and he said , " are you ok ?
i think it did occur to me to say , " yeah , i' m fine " .
that was stupid .
i think i said , " no , i' ve broken my leg " .
immediately , just doom .
i thought " god , we' re stuffed " .
we' re gonna be doing well if either of us gets out of this now .
it did come into my mind , just thinking ,
if he slips off the side of the mountain now , then i can just clear off ,
and leave him and get myself down and i don' t have to have all the hassle ,
of trying to deal with him and with the situation we' re in " .
he gave me these painkillers which were effectively headache tablets .
and he didn' t really talk about anything .
it was almost as if he ...
he knew , what this meant .
he knew , and i knew , that he was going to have to leave me .
he could have said something like " i' m just going to get some help " and i' d gone " right , yeah
' cause i knew there wasn' t any help .
that' d been an easy way for him to say it .
i didn' t think we really seriously thought that there was any choice
i couldn' t put my finger on it , why i thought something had happened .
and i started to think " is one of them dead , or are both of them dead ?
even " if one of them is dead " , not " which one do i want to be dead " , but
if one comes back , who do i want it to be ?
it' s kind of , quite cold to say it , but i guess
i would rather have it would have been simon .
i thought , " oh , he' s not leaving
i calmed down a bit and managed to focus myself again to think how i was going to get him down the mountain .
we discussed , between us , what we were going to have to do .
we thought , well , we got 2 ropes that are 50m long .
and if we tie them together we have a 100m rope with a knot in the middle of it .
so i tied to one end and simon tied to the other , in theory he could lower me down 100m .
to really get anchors to lower him from that do matter , what i did was cut a bucket in the snow , sit in there and brace myself .
and i sort of lay down between his legs .
and simon started lowering then .
i' d lower him one rope length , 50m , and then the knot would come up between the two ropes .
now the knot would not go through the belay plates .
so he would stop me .
i would stand on my left leg , my good leg , so that i could get the weight off the rope .
i gave him enough slack to be able to unclip the rope thread the rope back through the lowering device , with the knot on the other side clip it back to himself and lower me the remaining 50m .
he' d make himself reasonably secure , and i down climbed to join him .
and we' d repeat the process again .
simon was trying to lower me fast , and it meant that my foot kept jabbing in and jabbing in and bending the knee .
excruciatingly painful .
i can remember feeling angry with him because he was hurting me , and i was thinking " do it slow " , and i also knew that he had to do it this fast .
he hadn' t got a choice .
and he was very grim faced , i remember looking at him , wondering if he was pissed off with the whole thing .
i couldn' t take too much notice unfortunately of these cries of pain , because we got to go down .
we would dig these holes from the sitting in the powder snow , and they would last about the length of the time it took to lower me .
and in fact they were crumbling around him .
and he was lowering me on a 9mm , well 8 . 8mm rope .
that' s that thick .
but hands sort of frozen .
what he did was quite extraordinary , and i' ve never heard of any single handed mountain rescue like that .
we were now lowering in a full storm .
i don' t know what the wind chill factor was , but it would be like 80 or something like that .
i lost a liter of blood in my leg , i was in shock and severly dehydrated
it was a point where we should have dug a snow cave and taken shelter , got in our sleeping bags and made a hot brew , and rehydrate .
we couldn' t , ' cause we' d run out of gas .
and we just lost control at this point because we couldn' t dig a snow cave , and risk getting trapped by a storm that didn' t break .
it was all starting to look up in many ways at that point , as we were virtually down .
and i started to slowly think ,
maybe after this one we will have one more , and we' il be on the glacier " .
and suddenly all got hard on my elbows , and icy , and it got steeper , going down a slope and suddenly it' s steeper , and i just was full of alarm .
i was screaming at simon to stop as loud as i could , and he just couldn' t hear me .
i did notice that more weight came onto the rope , but didn' t really think a lot about this .
and i just thought ,
well , he' s going over some steeper ground
when i looked down , and i glimpsed ' cause there was a big drop underneath me ,
i was horrified to discover what i' d gone over .
and i could clearly see that there was a large crevice directly under the cliff , about 25m below me .
i was trying to get my axes to see if i could reach this wall that was out there ,
i think , almost as i start and try to do that , i started being lowered again .
and i was thinking , " christ , don' t do it , don' t do it " ,
' cause i knew , that there wasn' t enough rope to get me to the bottom .
and if i couldn' t get my weight off the rope , he couldn' t disconnect the rope , to get on the other side .
and i knew all this , and i was screaming again , not to lower me .
i carried on lowering him , until i reached the knot , then shook the rope .
my signal to him , to take the weight off the rope .
and nothing happened .
and nothing continued to happen .
i knew , that the only way out of this is if i could climb up the rope .
i had two prusik loops .
prusik loops are thin cords of rope .
and if you use a special twisting knot on the rope , you can slide it up the rope , and pull on it , and the knot grips the rope .
clip a snapping to it and then a sling to it , and you can stand up .
and if you got another one , tied above it , you slide that one up ,
standing this loop is now higher .
i was trying to hold myself upright , to keep the rope in place .
and then trying to put this knot through itself , and through itself , and this fiddly bloody rope ... it is just hard to describe how i couldn' t do it .
because my fingers , i just couldn' t feel the fingers at all .
and i' d be looking and trying to push the thing in , and using my teeth , and getting it round , and getting it round .
my hands were cold , my feet were ...
i was very very cold .
it was a desperate position , made worse by the fact that that i had no idea what joe was doing , or what position he was in .
i just couldn' t figure out why it was taking him so long to get his weight off the rope , there was no sensible explanation for it .
i got one on , and i clipped it to my chest , because that would keep me upright .
and i tried to put the other one on , and i had real trouble with my hands .
and i dropped the bloody thing , and i watched it fall .
and i knew that i was stuffed then .
i just thought , " well , i can' t climb the rope " , this idea that you can climb a rope hand over hand , you can' t , especially when your hands are frozen .
you just can' t do it .
nothing i can do , and i felt completely helpless .
and really angry .
there was nothing i could do .
i couldn' t get the weight off the rope ,
i was just there , and this went on for maybe an hour and a half , during which time my position became more and more desperate .
i was struggling to maintain the , sort of shivery seat that i sat in , and the snow was gradually sliding away from under me .
so my position was getting desperate .
i think psychologically i was beaten .
' cause there was nothing i could do , so i just hung on the rope and waited to die .
and i think i would have died pretty soon , actually .
the wind chill was very low .
i was literally going down the mountain in little , jerky stages .
' cause this soft , sugary snow collapsed away underneath me .
i was expecting him to come off , and couldn' t do anything about it .
he was gonna fall about 100m .
50m away from me , he was gonna fall double that , he was gonna die .
and he really didn' t know , whether i was meters off the ground , or centimeters , he just didn' t know .
but he knew , i think , pretty sadly , that he was gonna die .
then i remembered that i' ve got a pen knife in the top of my rucksack .
i took the decision pretty quickly .
to me , it just seemed like the right thing to do under the circumstances .
because there was no way that i could maintain where i was , sooner or later , i was going to be pulled from the mountain .
i took the rucksack off , and then unzipped the top pocket with one hand , and got the pen knife out .
boof !
it was an awful night .
my mind was plagued with the thoughts of what had happened to joe .
it took a long time to warm myself up .
and i didn' t properly , i guess .
had a very , very cold night .
the overriding memory is just feeling desperately , desperately thirsty .
to the point where i felt i could smell the water in the snow around me .
i felt that very strongly .
it was quite a strange thing .
i didn' t know what had happened .
what i landed on wasn' t flat , it was sloped on each side .
and i was sliding , in the dark .
i think i must have fallen about 50m in total .
i was pretty surprised to be alive .
the head torch beam just went down , and down , and down , and the darkness just ate it , just gone .
i felt very unnerved , very very vulnerable .
if i had landed less than 1m further to the right ,
i would have just gone down this huge hole .
i got this ice screw in , pretty quickly .
and then looked around , and thinking ,
jezus , it' s gonna be nearly impossible to get out of
my rope was going all the way up , 25m , up to this small entry hall .
and i thought , simon is on the end of that .
but i felt sure he was dead .
and it didn' t mean anything .
i just thought , " if i pull on this rope , it will come tight on his body " .
because he would have flown off the cliff , on to the downside of the crevice , and then , iying dead there , like a counterweight , the rope would have come back up and then dropped into the crevice .
so i thought , if i pull on this rope it will come tight on his body " .
and it just kept coming , and coming , and coming ,
as soon as i saw it , i knew it had been cut .
i thought , " you' re gonna die in here " .
i had a pleased feeling , that it meant that simon was alive .
simon !
looking where i was was an awful prospect .
you don' t die of a broken leg .
i think i did turn my head torch off to save the batteries .
it was dark , and it began to get to me .
there is something about crevices , they have a dread feel , not the place for the living .
i could hear the ice cracking , and wind noises in the ice .
i turned the light on again , ' cause i didn' t like it in the dark .
i felt very , very alone .
and i was very scared .
i was 25 , i was fit , i was super ambitious .
and this was the first trip i' ve been on .
i wanted to climb the world , and it just didn' t seem ... this hadn' t been part of our game plan .
it must have been quite late .
i think that i pretty much was thinking that i wasn' t gonna get out .
fuck .
stupid , stupid ...
as a climber you should always be in control , you have to be in control .
so doing that , you could be seen as half a failure .
you lost it .
this is childish .
i just cried and cried .
i thought ,
i' d be tougher than that .
it was getting light , as it was 5 or 6 .
and i started screaming simon' s name again .
i got myself up , got dressed inside the snow home and packed everything away ,
just a horrible feeling of dread .
by this stage , i strongly felt that joe had been killed the previous day .
and that now i was going to die , as some form of retribution .
but rather than just sit here , feeling sorry for myself or whatever ,
i' il get on with it and i' il die on the way down " .
very quickly , the ground dropped away steeply .
so i skirted around this area of steeper ground .
as i abseiled down , i could see this overhanging ice cliff , which was what i had lowered him over , so i knew that he' d had actually been hanging in space , which is the reason he couldn' t get his weight off the rope .
and as i went down lower , i could see to my horror , that the base of this ice cliff was an absolutely enormous crevice , that' s 12m wide and just bottomless from where i was looking at it .
slmon !
he would have been up with first light , i thought .
' cause i was desperately , desperately thirsty .
and he would have been .
and he would have wanted to get down , and get water .
and he would have wanted to find me .
now i did stop and pause , and i shouted across into the crevice , and i yelled and yelled , " joe , joe " .
and i suppose again , with the benefit of hindsight , after i got off the rope , i should have gone and looked , into the crevice , to see where he was .
but to be quite honest , the thought didn' t occur to me at that time .
i was just convinced he was dead .
absolutely convinced , by 10 , totally convinced , that i was on my own .
that no one was coming to get me .
i was brought up as a devout catholic .
i had long since stopped believing in god .
i always wondered , if things really hit the fan , whether i would , under pressure , turn around and say a few hail mary' s , and say " get me out of here " .
it never once occurred to me .
it meant that i really don' t believe .
and i really do think that when you die , you die .
that' s it , there' s no afterlife .
there' s nothing .
and i was thinking , " could i climb out of here ?
25 meter of overhanging ice .
no way , i couldn' t do it with a good leg .
i knew that they were both dead .
but i couldn' t just clear off and leave the camp .
for one thing , i didn' t know anything about them , except for their first names , joe and simon .
i didn' t know their family names , i really knew nothing about them .
and i had this bizarre idea , that if they' d fallen off the mountain , they would have just landed at the bottom of it .
and i thought , perhaps from the bottom of the glacier , i' d be able to see them .
and set off with the aim of going as far as i could .
i started to go down the glacier on my own .
in this stage i was still certain that i was gonna die myself .
crossing a glacier is very very dangerous on your own , because there are crevices in the ice , and the snow covers them .
fortunately i managed to find a faint outline of our tracks , from when we walked in .
it was only when i got off the glacier , i realized that i was going to get down ,
i was going to get out of it ,
i was gonna live .
i can' t really describe how scary the night had been .
i thought , it would be like that , for days .
you gotta make decisions , you gotta keep making decisions , even if they' re wrong decisions .
if you don' t make decisions you' re stuffed .
short of dying on the ledge , my only chance was to
lower myself deeper into the crevice .
i didn' t what i would find down there .
i was just hoping there might be some way out of the labyrinth of ice and snow .
and i really struggled to make that decision , i was so scared of going deeper .
the other option was to just to sit there , blindly hoping that somehow it might get better , and i just knew it wasn' t going to get better .
i didn' t want to look down ,
i was horrified at the thought that it was just empty down there .
i didn' t put a knot near the end of the rope , and if there was nothing down there i wouldn' t be able to hold the rope , and then i would fall , and it would be quick .
and i thought " jesus , this is big !
by this stage i was completely physically done in , staggering back down these meringues , still desperately thirsty .
there werre all these sort of thoughts swirling around in my mind , guilt , worry , thinking about how on earth am i going to explain this to joe' s parents , my friends , to richard .
the thought did cross my mind that maybe i could think up a decent story , that would make me look better .
and i did quite think about that , for quite a while .
really the only image that sticks in my mind from all the time in peru , is seeing this figure .
and it was fairly close before i could see who it was .
but he looked absolutely horrendous .
you wouldn' t recognize him .
and i said , " where is joe ?
and he just said , " joe is dead " .
i told him the whole story , as we walked back to the camp ,
i told him the whole story of what had happened .
he wasn' t in the slightest bit judgemental about me or what i' d done ,
he took it very well .
i must have lowered myself about 25m from where the ice screw was at the bridge .
i was now in what seemed to be the base of the crevice , that was shaped like a big hourglass .
to the ceiling , was probably about 50m .
i think it' s as big as the st. paul' s dome in scale .
i remember looking down , and there was just solid snow .
and i thought , " this is the bottom of the crevice !
about 15m away from me , there was a slope leading up .
right at the top , there was the sun coming through this hole .
and it was shining , just this big beam of sunlight coming in .
this was the way out i' d been looking for !
i remember thinking , " whoo , i can climb that slope , i bloody well will climb that slope !
i crawled across this flat floor , and i started crawling across on my stomach .
then i heard things breaking away underneath me .
i realized that this wasn' t a solid floor , it seemed to be hollow underneath it .
i was absolutely horrified .
it was suddenly , as if i was on an egg shell .
if i break through , i' il never be able to get across to this slope , and that was my way out .
alright , i' m on it , this is solid now .
i started to get my axe in and hop up .
that is extremely painful , as your legs hopped up , they both came down together .
i was trying to get into a better position , so that my left foot ain' t first .
but i inevitably went onto my broken leg .
i feel the displacement go , the bone move , so every hop i nearly faint .
it was just excruciatingly painful .
and it was a bright sunny day .
wow , the whole world has come back .
i was iying on the snow , just laughing .
that was the relief of getting out that place .
and i then looked at the glacier and i thought ,
well , you haven' t even started , mate " .
it' s kilometers and kilometers and on really bad ground .
but i think i was contemplating just sitting there , because i was coming at this , having done the most serious climb in my life .
you come down safe from a climb like that , you' d be exhausted for days .
you' d just eat and drink and sleep .
i' d just come out of that , i' d badly broken a leg , i was in great pain , highly dehydrated , i had no food , and i was looking at trying to do that .
just no way , just no way you' re physically gonna do that .
and then it occurred to me that i should set definite targets .
i started to look at things and think ,
right , if i can get to that crevice over there in 20 minutes " ,
that' s what i' m gonna do " .
if i got there in 18 minutes i was hysterically happy about it , and if i' d gotten 22 or 24 minutes , i was upset almost to the point of tears , and it became obsessive .
i don' t know why i did it , i think i knew the big picture of what had happened to me , and what i had to do was so big i couldn' t deal with it .
i stayed on simon' s tracks , and they were weaving around over humps , and past obvious crevices and stuff .
i thought , " well , unless i come to a hole with his body in the bottom of it ,
these tracks will lead me through the minefield of crevices " .
all these huge mountains around you , big mountain walls .
and they do make you feel small and vulnerable .
and you wonder whether there' s some malign presence out to get you .
it was like somebody was just teasing an ant , and putting something in its way all the time , and eventually gonna stand on it .
i could see simon' s tracks were filling in .
they were my lifeline off the glacier .
and i started to get very desperate .
i carried on crawling in the dark , a stupid thing to do on the slope of the glacier .
but i was frightened and i was just trying to see simon' s tracks .
in the morning , it was a bright , sunny day , all the tracks had gone .
i started quite early , and every now and then i had to stand up on one leg to try see the way , and then sit down again , and shuffle on .
there was one very horrendous crevice bit right near the edge , and i got into a maze of them .
i suddenly came to a point where i could see ice running down , then i could see rocks .
it was probably me , who brought up the subject of leaving .
partly ' cause i was worried about simon .
i just felt it was best to get as far away as possible from where it had happened .
i didn' t want to leave immediately ,
i felt i needed a day or two just to collect my thoughts , and to regain some strength .
spend a long time washing myself .
that felt good , to wash my hair and to wash my face , to have a shave , to ...
get the ... get the remnants , the mountain out of my system .
i was desperately thirsty , because it doesn' t matter how much snow you eat , you just can' t get enough water into your system .
and i saw the rocks , i knew how big these boulders would be and how far it was , and that was the first time that i really thought about , whether i could get the distance .
i got rid of all my gear .
i knew that i couldn' t crawl over these rocks , they were just too big and jumbled , and that the only way to do it was to try and hop .
i knew i was gonna fall a lot .
i' d fallen virtually every hop , and it' s just like having your leg broken about every time , and i remember
looking back where i' d come from , it was just over 20m , and it had taken me ages .
and the pain , just of the 20+m ...
i can be insanely stubborn .
and i do like to have things my way .
and things were seriously not going my way over these days .
i' d look at a rock and then i' d go , " right , i get there in 20 minutes " .
once i decided i was going to get that distance in 20 minutes ,
i bloody well was gonna do it .
and it would help me , because i' d get halfway through the distance , and i' d be in such pain ,
i just couldn' t bear the thought of getting up and falling on again , but i' d look at the target and think " i' ve got to get there " .
and i' d think , when i was iying a bit long , and i think ,
no , you gotta get there .
you only got 10 minutes left , only 10 minutes left !
it seemed like there was a very cold , pragmatic part of me that was saying ,
you have to do this , this and this , if you' re gonna get there " .
come on , keep moving , keep moving
right , get up , and do it again
it was quite insistent , and quite clear .
it was almost like a voice or a separate part of me , telling me to do something .
very uncaring .
no sympathy , no acknowledgement of the fact that i might be tired or hurt .
it was very , very odd .
that part of me kept saying , " keep moving , stop resting , keep moving " , and the other part of me , my mind , anyway , just was , " alright . " ,
looking around and absorbing things .
and as the hours went , and certainly as the days started to go , it became weirder and weirder .
so i was very , very , very thirsty .
very dehydrated .
and the agonizing thing is , all these boulders , these meringues , are on top of the glacier .
and you could hear water running .
all the time .
i' d fall over a lot and i' d hear water and i' d start digging around searching for it .
couldn' t find it , couldn' t get it .
and it was driving me mad , to be able to hear water .
i was worried about simon .
about his health , ' cause his fingertips were still quite bad from frostbite .
and i just felt it wasn' t a place to be lingering in .
we just started getting ready to leave in the morning .
i did eventually collapse amidst the rocks , and i didn' t sleep very well .
my leg was very painful .
it was agony .
it was the first night , i think , it hadn' t stormed .
it didn' t snow on me , and it didn' t rain .
and i could see the stars .
i can remember iying on my back for what seemed endless periods of time , staring at the stars .
at one point i had this weird sensation that i had been lain there , conscious , for centuries , for lifetimes .
becoming part of the rocks , and part of where i was never gonna move from .
the sun came up , and it started to warm me .
and i thought it' d be just so nice to just lie there , don' t move , and never hurt , and christ , i got so , so close to doing that .
i genuinely believed that i wouldn' t make the distance , and i also believed that i was going to die , and i sort of acknowledged it in a very matter of fact way .
and it seemed very rational to keep on crawling , if you didn' t think it was gonna be of any good .
i think that it was that loneliness , that sense of being abandoned .
it was there all the time .
i didn' t crawl , because i thought i would survive ,
i think i wanted to be with somebody when i died .
probably just a symbolic act to say goodbye to him , in my own mind , by doing that .
i drank liters and liters of it .
and it was just like putting fuel in ,
i could feel myself immediately just getting stronger .
i kept wetting myself .
and i can remember actually quite liking the sensation , the warmth of it .
it was just a slow , steady reduction .
not just physically .
physically is very obvious , but you , everything , yourself .
i felt left with nothing .
and i didn' t care anymore .
didn' t have any dignity , you didn' t care whether you' re brave or weak or anything .
you just became almost nothing .
it was strange .
i was still doing these test 20 minutes things , get here , get there .
and then i saw these footprints .
then i got convinced , that it was simon and richard .
they were up above me , and they were just following on , and i carried on crawling down , utterly convinced that they were wandering along behind me .
and i can remember thinking , " that is really stupid , they would come and help you " , and i think i persuaded myself that they were just following on , because they didn' t want to embarass me ' cause i peed myself and i was crying .
i don' t know how long it lasted , maybe about an hour .
i totally believed it , and then suddenly it was like popping a bubble .
and then i realized that they weren' t there , and i felt utterly shattered .
it was about 4 o' clock when i reached the lake .
and i that at the far end of it , there was a meringue dam .
and from the top of that meringue dam ,
i would be able to look down into the valley where the base camp was .
in fact , i would be able to see the tents .
this was the first time i thought it ,
i thought , " i' m gonna make the distance , i can actually make the distance " .
almost as soon i thought it , the next thought that popped into my head was ,
will there be anyone there ?
i thought , " christ , this is the fourth day since i saw simon " , and as i worked it out , i thought , " why on earth would they be there ?
i knew it got dark at six , and thought " i got to get there , i got to get there " , and i was trying to do it as fast as possible .
the rest of that afternoon ,
i was plagued by this dreadful feeling that they would have gone .
i hadn' t paid attention to what was happening with the weather .
between leaving at four and getting to the top of the meringues , about six , the weather had changed .
so when i looked down at the valley , it was just full of clouds .
i listened intently , hoping to hear a whistle or an answer , a cry back , something , and i didn' t hear anything at all .
and i spend a long time , sat there , crying , not sure what to do .
i thought about getting in my sleeping bag .
for some reason it just seemed a bit of a pathetic way to end things , just in a sleeping bag .
i thought , " well , nice but just keep going , you' il end it down there , somewhere " .
i don' t know entirely what happened for the rest of that night .
i stopped looking at the watch , and everything just started to go apart .
and i think i just got lost .
and i didn' t know what i was doing anymore .
i don' t remember thinking of anyone , anybody i loved or any of that .
i did have one time , when i got a song going through my head .
and it was by a band called boney m.
and i don' t really like boney m' s music .
brown girl in the ring , there' s a brown girl in the ring , brown girl in the ring , she looks like a sugar in a plum , plum , plum !
show me your motion , come on show me your motion , show me your motion ,
and it just went on and on and on , for hours .
i found it very upsetting , ' cause i wanted to try and get it out of my head .
and i wanted to think of other things .
i was thinking , " bloody hell , i' m gonna die to boney m " .
i remember sometimes not waking up ,
i think i was awake all the time , but coming to , it was like waking up , and sort of find myself sitting there ,
i didn' t know where i was .
it was pitch black and snowing , and i' d think i was back on the glacier , or i' d think i was in a public car park , and had been beaten up again , and then i' d just drift off again .
i remember smelling something .
it was a really strong smell .
and it acted like a smelling salt , to cut through all this delerium .
and i remember being really confused , i couldn' t understand what it meant .
it took me ages to to try and work out what it meant .
i thought it was me .
and very slowly , i worked it out , and i thought ,
i' ve crawled through the latrine area of our camp site " .
and i realized then , that i was close to the tents .
as i was shouting it , i thought , " this is it , this is as far as this game goes " .
i' m not capable of going any further .
i made the mistake of having a little bit of hope , that they' d still be there .
and when i shouted , and they weren' t there ,
i sort of knew i was dead then .
that moment , when no one answered the call ,
it was ...
i lost something .
i lost me .
i woke up , not knowing why .
and was aware of this kind of strange atmosphere ,
i could hear the wind howling outside the tent .
and started hearing something .
it did slowly dawn on me , that really the only thing it could be , would be joe outside shouting .
but that was completely impossible , because he was dead , and he died 3 or 4 days ago .
and then head it again , much sharper , and it really sounded like somebody shouting .
simon .
i can have gotten into a panic , but first , it couldn' t be joe , because joe' s dead .
and then , if he is out there , it' s gonna be this horrible thing , it can' t be a human being , because , no human being can possibly go through that , and be outside the tent .
i was just kind of iying there , really not knowing what to do .
and then simon woke up .
simon ! " , it was quite clearly a shout of my name .
i knew it was joe actually , i knew immediately .
i was looking around , and then i saw this thing , floating .
of course simon exploded into action .
suddenly i heard voices .
is that you ?
i was holding back , because i didn' t feel that was a human being out there .
and we went back up the stream , right from where these cries had come from , about maybe 60 80 m outside the camp , and there was joe .
i couldn' t completely believe it , until i actually saw him , but then it was still a little difficult to believe that , because of the eerie night and the state he was in .
absolutely awful state .
it was almost like he was a sort of ghost like figure .
it was like i had to sort of pinch myself almost to believe this was true , that this was really happening .
help me !
oh fuck , joe !
simon , he was swearing a lot .
swearing a lot .
richard , lift him !
richard , hold him , you stupid bastard !
lift him !
i remember simon grabbing my shoulders , and holding me .
i remember that .
that feeling of being held .
he thanked me for trying to get him down the mountain , for all that i' d done up to the point , where i cut the rope , and he said to me , " i' d have done the same " .
those were the first words he uttered to me .
and i remember , before we' d done anything to him , before we' d even close the door , he said , " where are my trousers ?
we had to explain , that we burned his trousers , which made him quite angry .
and i think that kind of brought me back into life , to some extend . realizing it was the same old joe , back again .
