the rules of the game
a film analysis by jean douchet and pierre oscar lvy
when in february 1939 ,
jean renoir starts shooting " the rules of the game " ,
tensions in europe are at their peak .
general franco has just captured barcelona .
the spanish republic is defeated .
ln march , hitler invades czechoslovakia .
the western democracies give in once again .
renoir wishes to direct a film not related to these events .
the rules of the game " is a frivolous comedy in the french stage tradition .
but the comedy turns to causticity and jean renoir shows the cause of the evil eating away at europe .
he depicts a class that shuns its responsibilities , a society locked in sterile games , a ruling class whose blindness paves the way for fascism .
the film becomes the testimony to the world tragedy that lies ahead .
the massacre taking place during the hunting scene is a warning .
i wanted to show a society that is dancing on a volcano " , said renoir .
his characters seem charming on an individual basis .
they are also unpredictable .
on hindsight , they turn out to be obnoxious .
here , they are spoiled and blas kids .
their pleasures are cruel and futile .
as a group , they become murderers .
trapped by the rules , they act without desire and react like robots .
renoir creates a movement that shows each character at close range then at a greater distance .
he shows first their intimacy then the reality of their social game .
for this purpose he uses the fielddepth and a wide angle shot , as the visual and sound range is covered three dimensionally .
he describes how complex life is .
the rules of the game " is a masterpiece ,
a lesson in movie making .
ln the end , all is well again .
after jurieu' s death , shot like a rabbit , no one is shocked .
his death is covered up like in a conjuring trick .
through their lies they recover good manners , the comedy has lasted long enough .
the violence of this society has been proven .
death is accepted as a necessity , not a coincidence , in order for the rules to apply .
the landowners are together again .
but having respected the etiquette and saved appearances for so long , this class condemns itself .
lifeless , it is heading for its own downfall .
renoir shows this by having mere shadows returning to the castle .
the movie ends at night with a fade to black .
the rules allowed to eliminate the intruders .
the troublemakers leave as they came .
jurieu , the pilot , a modern hero , is greeted with lies .
he disappears in hypocrisy .
octave , the faithful friend , the sponger , steps aside like a servant .
marceau, the poacher , is fired ...
... in the same way he was hired .
these three characters bring and take away with them
life itself : desire , love and fiction .
but in this world , they must be marginalized .
there is no room for them .
the rules of the game " is the story of their brief passage on a stage run by the marquis .
for the viewer , it is also the story of the games of love and desire .
the women believe they are at the heart of the story .
the men gravitate around them as if women were the reason for the movement .
the bourgeois comedy follows the traditions of light french comedies .
the three classical characters , husband , wife , lover move under the conniving gaze of the husband , the marquis , master of the entire social mechanism .
he reigns over a society of robots .
the rules of the game " starts out as a comedy and ends in tragedy .
renoir , in a skillfully unbalanced movement , switches from one to the other .
thus he draws the movie' s dynamics from its construction that is rigorous and flawless .
ln the first reel , renoir deals out the cards .
the suitor , the wife , the husband , the mistress .
they position themselves for the eternal game of love .
ln the second reel , octave wants to be the matchmaker .
each reel is a step in the plot .
between each reel , there is a fade out .
ln the third reel , the action started in paris continues as we discover la colinire
and a new intruder .
ln the fourth reel , the guests arrive .
ln the fifth , everything works out .
the entire sixth reel deals with the hunt .
whatever you are seeing over there seems interesting .
very interesting .
suddenly christine understands .
the seventh reel heralds the falling apart of the couples .
you see , you are bothering us !
at the beginning of the eighth reel , the film' s structure changes completely .
the second part of the story develops in the next four reels .
the action unfolds in real time .
there no longer are any fade outs , ellipses or dissolves .
the filming technique changes .
all the cards change hands .
the game is shattered .
ln one evening , we follow the characters ' crazy race as if they were in a play .
this grand finale is heralded at the beginning of the film by a reference to the " marriage of figaro " .
as in the theatre , the action of the first part unfolds in continuity .
yet renoir uses fade to black and three dissolves .
these ellipses are like a curtain that rises and falls on stage .
as in the theatre , the unity of place is important .
the film unfolds behind closed doors .
the townhouse in paris ,
the hunting grounds in sologne and the castle of la colinire are but one space belonging to one person , the marquis .
as on stage , the leading characters have their stand ins , their manservants ,
who experience the same situations as their masters .
but their actions are more natural and more violent .
they show the owner' s true self and act on his behalf .
the references to the stage are obvious .
renoir however is not filming a play .
as if he were making a documentary , he tries to recreate the rhetoric of news reporting .
the film starts with a live radio news coverage .
renoir uses these modern techniques to introduce his subject concisely and efficiently .
the classical voice over which often starts a fiction is embodied by the newscaster .
it seems more natural .
the radio pulls the thread of the narrative .
it switches from one character to the next , from one setting to the next , efficiently and quickly .
each character' s motivations and plans are immediately known .
and first of all those of renoir , the director .
he uses these recreated newsreels to make us believe in the reality of the plot .
the director shows an episode of modern life and announces the logic in the making of his film .
the event takes place .
the newscaster and the camera disappear .
the plane suddenly appears ,
life' s speed and power .
life enters the shot and disrupts it in an utter confusion of frames and sounds .
enthusiasm arises in this news coverage meant to be well polished .
from then on , the camera stands back in order to become independent and have another viewpoint .
the movie' s dynamics always switch between these viewpoints .
a close shot of the subject is followed by a backward movement setting it in its context .
this near to far movement from the general to the particular is characteristic of the movie .
it shows characters under a pleasant light to reveal their lie when they think they are being sincere .
renoir' s moviemaking technique serves a specific idea : to describe the lies of a society that no longer believes in its own values .
this class is so powerful it can make nature lie .
even the beats are solely organized for conventional purposes .
ln a documentary like sequence , renoir meticulously follows the ritual of bourgeois hunts ' .
life' s tremor and slow death throes contrast with the cold conduct of the hunters .
the editing rhythm , the well designed framing and the sharp directing contribute to a rigorous story telling .
to film the life and the death of the animal the camera must capture the action as in a newsreel .
precisely organized and well designed frames surround the hunters .
the hides and the trees push us towards the game as the hunters shoot at us but disappear when we see the hunters ' backs .
renoir puts up the fences the marquis hates .
he thus marks the distance .
we too are excluded from this world .
a curtain of trees separates us from the action .
by insisting on the sky' s expanses ,
renoir shows the power of this class to which the beaters conveniently offer this massacre .
the marquis occupies his space as if he ruled the world and even owned nature itself .
renoir organizes the sequence around the crossing of his shots whose techniques and aspects differ .
the movie is not a filmed play nor a true story report .
ln " the rules of the game " , all narrative styles are combined to create dynamics that remain lively .
the free style in writing provides a feeling of burgeoning , an impression of energy , as if the film were unfolding in the present .
each viewer feels he is participating
in the shooting of the movie .
renoir seems to be organizing everything
as the movie is being shown .
you almost feel like saying that you will come back tomorrow to see if the story is the same .
renoir , who plays octave in the movie , seems to be directing the movie from within his character and within the frame itself .
here , he congratulates christine for her monologue .
here , he watches her as she focuses the binoculars .
here again , he wants to change the script .
everywhere , he tries to inspire freedom and life .
until renoir the actor , overcome by the forces he has set in motion ...
... is thrown out of the production by renoir the " auteur " .
here the plot twists around .
the freedom , the vitality and the energy of the game are most obvious .
octave is no match for the unsettled social mechanisms .
society itself , a society of ghosts , is carried along by its death urges .
once again , renoir uses and combines all styles .
ln this amateur theatre or cabaret skit , death dances as in a medieval mystery play .
here partners change and doors slam as in light comedy .
now comes the farce .
a chaplin like burlesque comedy .
a light comedy .
a social satire .
or a moralistic comedy .
the different styles mix without affecting the work' s unity .
renoir places side by side scenes with contrasting styles as a painter would do with complementary colors to give them more sparkle .
each actor plays his own role with his own technique .
each is from a different school and has his own acting style .
each acts freely , according to his own personality .
nobody is surprised to hear a poacher in sologne talk with a parisian accent .
renoir lets dalio use too much make up when he must reveal the vanity and falsehood of the marquis .
like the fashionable photographers of the day , the lighting embellishes the women' s faces in close ups .
christine ,
lisette ,
genevive .
renoir imposes the photography which the situation requires .
and it changes depending on the action , on the requirements of a scene and on the style of the shot .
renoir uses all the known technical processes to get to the truth .
his camera opens the doors into a world of strict rules , yet his directing seems to leave the actors totally free .
they remain lively , direct and at ease , not technically hindered .
yet this seeming freedom in the directing hides the reality .
they are on probation so to speak .
the camera is always there , precise and meaningful .
whatever they think or do , they cannot escape it .
it is always between two french window panes , a frame within the frame , that we enter this world .
renoir uses a long continuous sequence with sufficient depth to see the action unfold near as well as far from the camera .
the camera follows the characters attentively and rigorously .
robert disappears from the shot when christine calls .
the marquis must ask permission to be admitted within the frame .
after some noise , the camera suddenly searches for lisette .
the moving frame gives true meaning to the relationships between the characters .
the marquis goes on his way .
christine prefers to welcome octave and kisses him like a friend .
robert kisses his wife' s hand as in high society .
to underline the husband and wife' s formal relationship , the miles separating schumacher from lisette are mentioned .
the camera thus moves in an abrupt blur pan with a truck in forward .
a move that alerts the viewer .
the truck in with a pan towards the left underlines octave' s energy and at the same time describes how cold the relationship is between the marquis and his wife .
the pan and the side truck tell the truth .
the marquis and christine' s relationship is strictly social .
the pan is the major camera movement in this movie .
it favors the width of the field , over the depth which underlines the legible actions , near and far from the camera .
therefore the pan together with the field depth allow renoir to give his directing as much freedom , speed and life as possible in the most complex situation .
field depth , pan , speed .
let us look at the camera work .
the camera is still .
then it pans and is still again .
the incredible agitation of the actors sets the rhythm .
lrruption of sounds , confusion in the situation .
the camera remains still during an important scene .
the sound is as important as the sharpness of the picture .
a blur pan catches up with the chase .
turning around its axis , the camera sweeps the area where the characters are moving
like a police camera inspecting the flow of traffic .
or a surveillance camera trying to catch burglars in action .
the coordination of the movements and the speed of the actors create an impression of complexity in this very efficient shot , clearly showing jurieu and robert carrying genevive .
we barely notice them in the blur pan meant to capture the chase .
the speed is due to the perfect synchronization between the acting and the technical precision .
ln this high society people do not look at each other .
they talk within the same frame by using a prop : a gramophone , a clockwork doll , a mirror ...
... or a bow tie .
there can be intimacy only by forgetting the rules in private .
when the rule is scorned because of tensions , rare cross cut shots underline the contrast between the characters .
the wide angle highlights the class difference between the marquis and octave .
a high camera angle , a low camera angle .
low angle shots highlight the idealism and the sky .
they also highlight the faith in an elitist order .
and the high angle shots show the true relation to the earth : ownership and domination .
ln each scene , the camera frames the action to show who is in the game and who is temporarily out .
people coming in and going out of shot have a specific meaning .
the scenes starting with an empty frame show us individuals who have lost touch with reality either following an accident , or because they are overtaken by the death they orchestrated
or went mad after battling with very strong feelings .
just like a conductor , renoir uses the dynamics between picture and sound .
ln this movie , the sound track is as important as the photography .
the sound comments on the picture .
the noise starts the action .
a foreigner , christine corrects her husband' s pronunciation .
renoir reminds us of her nationality and forces us to remember the name of lisette' s husband .
the sound underlines the acting .
the sound of the spring sets off the erotic assault .
renoir treats sound and photography equally .
be it close or far .
the sound comes near then goes away .
the depth of sound seems to be carefully chosen .
baroque music is only heard at the beginning and end of " the rules of the game " .
otherwise music has a physical source in the frame : a radio , a phonograph , a robot ,
a clockwork doll , or a few music instruments such as a piano , a pianola ,
a trumpet ,
a hunting horn .
generally , the music stems from a machine and it always accompanies the action or an amorous feeling .
it also reveals the artifice of passion .
only marceau and octave , the outcasts , escape the mechanism of these feelings .
here , the phonograph' s music sets off the dionysian desire .
the faun chases the nymph .
this scene announces trouble at la colinire .
the camera pans from the music sheets to the pianist' s hands then dollies back .
renoir backs up to have an overall view as in the beginning of the movie .
this shot heralds a sequence that will twist the plot round , change the movie' s rhythm and directing and speed up all the elements .
the editing immediately unsettles the viewer even more .
the pianist' s glance introduces the shot of the little theatre .
to obtain a pov shot matching this glance a camera must be placed to the left of the scene , near the piano .
renoir however places his camera to the right .
it no longer depends on the action .
a panning truck shot describes the space , showing first the small theatre , then the guests and the servants in the hallway , and the higher ranking servants .
the stage looks at the audience , the audience is watching the stage .
it is a genuine game of mirrors .
ln the wings , excitement prevails .
genevive is in the marquis ' arms , openly divulging their affair .
ln reprisal , christine pulls saint aubin , her clumsiest suitor .
jurieu wants to react but he is held back .
the audience is demanding , the game must continue .
new couples are made up for the finale .
christine and saint aubin walk by .
at a glance , jackie evaluates her chances of marrying jurieu .
the viewer must see her to understand the plot .
such speed had never been seen in 1939 .
renoir goes beyond the simple classical threesome .
robert , saint aubin , octave and jurieu .
marceau , schumacher and octave .
the game of love becomes more complex .
as always with renoir , the theatre is a mirror where one projects a collective image , aspirations and an imaginary world .
here the camera faces the stage from a slightly low angle as if it were a spectator .
renoir invites us to step back , to think twice about this society putting on a show .
the costumes were chosen on purpose .
the year is 1939 .
the actors , dressed as tyrolians , sing an ultranationalist song , a nationalist hymn to the glory of the french army .
they thus ridicule the ideals of their parents , who at the beginning of the third republic incarnated the peak of the french bourgeoisie .
on the eve of the war with germany , such images are explosive .
ln " the rules of the game " , renoir shows a privileged group making fun of the values on which their society is based .
ln 1939 , they are rejecting their own nationality , fearing neither nazism nor fascism .
on the contrary , they appreciate law and order .
what they feared was the popular front in 1936 .
now the social revolt is harnessed .
it is snobbish to be common .
with new social benefits , the lower class thinks it has the same privileges as its masters .
they want to imitate their masters and to enter the privileged family .
some asparagus ?
no thank you .
never preserves .
only fresh foods because of the vitamins .
french society is morally apathetic .
you gave me a chance by hiring me as a servant .
lmagine figaro saying these words on the eve of the revolution .
but the movie is inspired by this play .
marceau plays figaro .
ln the movie , the names are not randomly chosen .
marceau was a republican general during the french revolution .
la marseillaise " .
there is also an ancestor of la chesnaye in that movie .
the la chesnaye in " la marseillaise " is an ultra royalist supporter of marie antoinette , the austrian .
the marquise is also austrian .
you still are my little girl from salzburg .
renoir defends the three ideals of the revolution : for him , there is no freedom without equality , no equality without brotherhood .
ln 1939 , this society accepts these three principles .
it even flaunts them to rid them of their meaning .
they all seem so free yet they are totally subjugated to their rules .
they pretend to be equal , to a certain extent .
they too are entitled to some fun .
they pretend to be brotherly despite facts to the contrary .
dear marceau , you will also have to leave .
l can' t fire schumacher and let you stay here with his wife .
it would be immoral .
i understand .
friendship and camaraderie are mere delusions .
ln 1789 , ownership was established as a principle .
l don' t care about their money .
lt' s too stupid to work for others .
but ownership destroys equality , distorts brotherhood and in the end corrupts the notion of freedom .
the marquis is immensely rich .
he pretends to believe that wealth is not important .
for renoir , ownership is worse than theft , it' s the root of crime .
we know what to do with the likes of marceau .
a good riffle shot at night in the woods .
the small landowner embodies the fundamental vice : he kills to defend his property .
that is why on stage , where their costumes betray them , the owners are shown as ghosts led by death .
why does jurieu have to die ?
because he is the only one who dares to risk his life .
for christine , he risked his life by crossing the atlantic .
he is from another place , another era .
from an imaginary place , a mythical era of chivalry .
a romantic hero , like don quichotte , he believes in the dream of sincerity , the illusion of loyalty and honesty .
he believes in the anachronistic values of this landowners ' world .
l must tell la chesnaye .
what for ?
because it is the right thing to do .
jurieu does not love christine the way one loves a woman .
he loves the ethereal and romantic idea of a grand lady with a pure heart .
because the character is innocent and honest as well as weak , he is a perfect target .
the rule requires that the intruder be eliminated or leave .
as in the theatre , the cast returns to the stage .
this society still shines like the false light of a dead star .
but its fundamental values have disappeared .
it tries to delude itself about its existence by gravitating faster ,
to better discover its emptiness .
and the ghosts ' shadows return to the castle .
audlophase
