portugal lnc .
the paths that will lead the prince to power are numerous and many .
some inherit power and others conquer it through luck or talent .
others only attain power through criminal or treacherous acts .
they will attain power against the will of many and by means a thousand works and dangers and will maintain power through audacious and daring acts .
but we cannot say it is an example of virtue to kill or betray ones friends or to lack either loyalty or compassion .
llsbon , end of the twentleth century
my dear !
my dear !
fear not , you did the right thing ...
god and i will be watching over you .
congratulations !
behave yourself , young lady .
good luck !
first the church , then the government and finally the opposition !
jacinto , congratulations ...
thanks , pedro .
congratulations ...
you ve a fine bride ...
thank you .
this is for you .
so are you happy , mum ?
yes ... for you .
fancy a cod pasty and a glass of red wine ?
jacinto , do you think i might have a word with boaventura now ?
i believe in the free market , that s where i made my fortune .
but we were educated in other principles alexandre .
don t try to tell me that its profits and the market that should determine which companies should survive .
there are other values at issue , the national interest , friendship ...
i know you re preparing to buy the banco popular from the spaniards , with assistance from the government .
you re fully aware that my group depends on the relationship of mutual confidence that we ve built up with the banco popular and if this relationship changes it could cause me severe difficulties and perhaps the lay off of thousands of workers ...
during my years of exile in brazil while i fought to recover what had been stolen from me in the 197 4 revolution , you never demonstrated a flicker of solidarity and on business trips to brazil you never asked me whether
i could help you or whether i might like to be your business partner .
even today , in the dire straits you find yourself , you can t find the humility to request help or support ...
lnstead you talk about workers and unemployment as if you gave a shit about them !
think carefully , alexandre ... think before taking a decision ...
are you sure that boaventura will buy the bank ?
hum . hum !!!
you know perfectly well that if the bank remains in spanish hands it ll destroy my political career .
trust me .
have i ever let you down ? ...
jacinto , minister .
as you requested , in today s board meeting of the banco mtua
i approved a special credit line for the boaventura group .
thank you , francisco .
joo nuno has also confirmed that the bank of portugal will not oppose the transaction , even though it means that boaventura will acquire over 20 % of the banking market .
that s enough conspiring for today .
come on francisco , let s dance , sorry ...
lt s for you , mr. boaventura ...
l ve just received confirmation of the loan to purchase the banco popular .
on our terms ?
on our terms .
l m not spending another cent in portugal .
not after everything they stole from me in the revolution .
the minister would like to have a quick word .
may i ask him inside ?
congratulations , mr. boaventura .
the popular is finally to return to portuguese hands !
thank you very much , minister .
l m simply doing my duty as a businessman and a portuguese citizen .
you re probably aware that certain voices in the media have suggested that you won t hesitate at the first opportune moment to sell at a profit and return to brazil .
l d like to reassure the prime minister and guarantee there won t be a change in the ownership structure of the boaventura group over the next ten years and that there will be a significant increase in support for national industry ?
you know l ve always tried to contribute towards our country s progress and development .
between men of honour written contracts are unnecessary .
i have your word then , mr. boaventura ?
yes .
dr. jacinto is my witness .
mr. boaventura !
have you come to tell us about your boys, father francisco ? ...
you re the one who could give me some information .
l m going to interview pedro on my programme .
what do you want to know ?
the bank of portugal s position in this story .
shall we have lunch together ?
don t you know harassment of a senior official of the bank of portugal is a crime ?
what about harassment of a friend s wife ?
pedro ?
headline news .
pedro castelo branco in the clutches ... of the media !
ls it true that pedro is your guest this week ?
he s the one in the limelight in the boaventura deal .
ls your party for or against ?
off the record .
lf we were in the government we d do exactly the same thing .
but since we re in the opposition , we re against .
how about a group photo ?
jacinto .
francisco .
help me out .
let s get organised ...
wait pedro s missing ...
pedro !
pedro !
pedro !
minister !
come on the country needs you .
a flower ...
nothing ...
joo nuno , you betrayed our group when you joined the commies ...
let him be ... we forgive the follies of youth ...
on second thoughts , i never did belong to this group ... so ...
wait ... make way for the newlyweds ... in the middle .
we re fine over here .
come on .
forget it ... we re fine as we are .
ftima s the only one missing .
lf she d been in portugal l m sure she would have come .
she d never miss a chance to try to seduce jacinto .
why didnt you call me ? ... out of pride ?
we always have to be the strongest dont we ?
we know no limits , we admit no defeats .
you needed my help ... and i needed you so much ...
i would have done anything for you ! ...
the prince must win friends and exterminate his enemies .
make himself beloved and feared by the people .
be prepared to prevail by force or deceit .
he should also maintain the friendship of the rich and powerful until he is suffiiciently powerful to no longer need them .
bastards !!!
i need to know all details of financial movements over the last year .
from now on , no sale or purchase order leaves this office without my consent . ...
we should therefore know ...
that there are two kinds ... we should therefore know ... we should therefore know that there are two kinds of combat ... we should therefore ...
enter .
i wanted to have a word with you alone .
l m worried about you .
get to the point .
there are many interests at stake in the boaventura deal , francisco , and there are people in high places who don t like the way you ve influenced everything and everyone in favour of boaventura ...
joaquim castro could have told me that in person ...
l m worried that you re sending pedro and jacinto up a blind alley
don t worry , i know what s best for them .
and you take care of the company you keep ,
paulo , it s better to avoid certain neighbourhoods .
check .
how many pieces will you have to sacrifice before checkmate ? ...
doctor ftima ? ...
will you be needing anything else ?
no thank you , mr. silva .
you can go home .
mr afonso resende
the minister should always smile and never give a straight answer to any question ...
let s put the make up on then ...
use something highly absorbent .
the minister s skin is very oily .
well ?
ready ?
returning to the opening topic of this interview and the key issue that concerns the portuguese at the present moment .
does your government support the agreement reached between
boaventura group and the spaniards enabling the portuguese businessman to take back control over the banco popular ?
my government is in favour of the existence of strong economic groups in portugal .
i trust and believe that the majority of the portuguese share my faith in the capacities of mr. boaventura and his patriotism .
you don t think that you could be placing your political career at risk ?
there are still men of honour in portugal and l m certain that mr. boaventura is one of them .
that journalist had been bought , minister !
she forced you to swear your trust in boaventura .
i need jacinto ...
what ?
nothing ...
call dr. jacinto pereira lopes for me ...
i hope the honeymoon s over ...
hi , pedro ?
everything went very well .
no , i didn t see you on tv ... sorry ...
okay , fine ...
l ll stop by in your office tomorrow , before going to see boaventura ...
okay ... see you .
and one of the finest economists of her generation .
with a phd from harvard and an elegant woman with recognised good taste ...
doutora ftima resende .
why did you leave the university in order to return to portugal ?
because my father s good name is more important to me than my career .
but as a true professional , you also like a good challenge ?
i wouldnt disagree .
i like a good challenge !
what s she trying to say with this ?
who ?
ftima ?
that this is a pyramid and a paper knife ... in crystal ...
don t take me for an idiot ... what does this mean in your secret code ?
you ve got more experience than me in esoteric interpretations .
but if you really want to know why don t you talk to your aunt felismina who is ... a woman of virtue that communes with the spirits ...
leave my aunt out of this ... if it wasn t for her we wouldn t have this house
... thanks for the house , rosa .
this is the rdio club portugus the news .
good morning .
trading in the lisbon stock exchange opened strongly again this morning as a result of the purchase of the banco popular by the boaventura group .
this acquisition provoked a wave of enthusiasm amongst investors , after alexandre boaventura promised yesterday to strengthen his group with acquisitions of more leading portuguese companies .
at the same times the securities market commission decided to launch an enquiry into the brokerage house , resende , thus confiirming rumours of possible financial malpractises that may have been at the origin of the suicide of the broker , afonso resende .
ln the inauguration of the hospital in vila flor , the prime minister declared that the government ...
it concerns dr. ftima resende , who returned in a hurry to portugal as a result of her fathers business transactions .
the brokerage house is in a bad way and risks going bankrupt .
do our banks have credits on the resende brokerage house ?
l ve left a full report on your desk .
put him through please .
yes ? ...
might i ask the reason for your interest ?
a beautiful woman always merits special attention .
without them you can t build empires .
the brokerage house , resende , will always honour its commitments .
and the death of my father won t change that .
you can take my word on that .
as soon as i have a precise idea of the situation , l ll be in touch .
a very good afternoon to you .
alexandre boaventura buys the banco popular .
deal of the century
we support a strong national banking industry " comments the minister pedro castelo branco .
the governments greenlight for the take over of banco popular by the well known businessman , alexandre boaventura , continues to have a positive impact on the stock exchange ...
i apologise for turning up unannounced .
for the love of god , ftima , there s no need for apologies .
my door is always open , especially for you
what brings you to the home of a humble servant of the lord ?
i need to know whether the " mtua " will grant me a loan ?
my father s brokerage house is in dire straits .
it depends on the amount and the collateral ...
ten million euros and i don t have sufficient collateral ...
that puts me in a difficult situation .
you know l m nothing more than a mere servant of the wealth and riches that have been confided to me ....
i can t do anything for you ... but there s a great deal you can do ...
dr. jacinto ?
the minister will see you now .
i have to address parliament later this afternoon and you know that in my position i can t run the risk of fait daccompli .
l m counting on you .
i need you to keep me informed of all boaventura s movements ...
lf you re talking about banco popular , you can relax .
rumour has it that if this goes awry , my head will be the first to roll .
and that you ll be my replacement .
you know perfectly well that i don t want to be a minister .
and that i would never betray you .
we can t delay matters any longer .
the decision has been taken and is irreversible ...
but , dr. jacinto , the government guaranteed that the banco popular would reinforce its support for portuguese economic groups ...
what government ?
what bullshit !
lmmediately pay off the outstanding loans the bank made to you or l ll draw down the collateral you presented and take over your group .
you ll regret this , alexandre .
i love watching them crawl ...
a man like that doesn t deserve to be in a position of power .
dr. jacinto , l m counting on you to explain our position to our friends in the government .... and in the opposition of course ...
of course ...
it appears that your name is being mentioned to occupy a place in the government ?
they re just rumours , mr. boaventura .
just as well , i can t abide two timers !
lt s your son .
he was caught trying to rob another shop and requests your assistance .
forget him .
he ceased to be my son many years ago .
mr. boaventura , if there was ever any conflict of interest between our group and national politics ...
i would never hesitate to stand on your side .
we must always bend national politics to suit our business interests .
dom jos , how are you ?
as has been stated quite clearly in this commission , the government had always acted in the national interest ...
ln the interest of boaventura ! ...
don t interrupt me right honourable member
you are the one who should set aside for a moment the interests of the economic group he is associated to and concentrate his energies on the country he represents in this house .
i am in a position to guarantee to my fellow members of parliament and to the country that the banco popular will henceforth remain in national hands which they should never have left in the first place .
lf for any reason this commitment is not honoured
i hereby give my word that i will resign forthwith .
dr. jacinto ?
lsabel , please ask dr. teles and dr. alvaro to come to my office .
but ...
and i don t want to be interrupted .
rosa didn t like my present ? ...
perhaps she didn t understand what i meant to say ...
the only way to climb the pyramid of power is with a dagger .... is that why you came to see me ?
no .
i came to visit the youngest and most talented board director of the country s largest economic group .
when i was a two penny student intern and you a rich little girl , you never took the initiative to visit me ...
but we spent some good times together ...
yes but you preferred to leave for the united states ...
and you fell into the arms of rosa , with the blessings of francisco ...
don t attack francisco .
he was the one who kept us together ... ... in order to use you .
but we always benefited from the interesting titbits of information that he gave us ..
that s exactly what i need right now : a titbit of information .
there are no more titbits to be had .
the deal is done .
boaventura bought the banco popular and now holds a majority stake , thus returning the bank into national hands .
boaventura in shining white armour ... saviour of the nation ...
... we could have dinner so that you can tell me the rest of the fairytale .
i just got back from my honeymoon ...
why don t you tell rosa that you ve got a meeting ? ...
you make a pretty good temptress when you put your mind to it .
i await the chance to put that talent to the test .
just so you don t have the excuse to say you didn t know where to find me ...
rosa , could you come in here please ?
listen , rosa , l m scheduled to attend a concert tonight in the ccb on behalf of the banco mtua and i have another engagement ,
i thought you might be able to substitute me ...
l d be delighted .
one other thing , rosa : does jacinto know about your problems ?
which one , francisco ?
you know perfectly well which one .
neither that one nor the other .
just as well .
lt s a wife s duty to avoid inflicting suffering on her husband .
it was exactly because i considered you to be the right woman for jacinto that i supported your marriage and helped you in purchasing shares .
i hope you don t disappoint me .
lt s been difficult to persuade jacinto to be more ambitious ...
i want to know everything , absolutely everything .
i get the feeling that there s something we re missing here .
and i hired you for boaventura exactly so that i could know everything .
but everything seems to be running so smoothly ... the deal with the banco popular was a complete and outstanding success .
yes , but we have to be prepared for what comes next .
it won t stop here .
and i have the distinct feeling that there s something we don t know .
and that makes me nervous .
joaquim castro has strong backing and won t stand by idly ...
dr. jacinto ...
lsabel , i thought i told you i didn t want to be interrupted !
sorry , but its mrs. rosa ... your wife .
yes .
no ...
you know classical music s not my fort
fine , l ll spend a few more hours in the office ...
enjoy yourself .
kisses .
things in the brokerage house went from bad to worse and he was too proud to ask for help .
i was one of his great admirers .
i always had a soft spot for your father .
lt s a shame you didn t show that , when you still had the chance .
i don t understand .
boaventura s bid for the banco popular was well above its share price quotation .
one word from you and the brokerage house could have paid off all its debts .
do you realise what you re suggesting ?
yes .
and you still have the chance to redeem yourself .
you just have to whisper in my ear what i want to know .
you know perfectly well that would be illegal ...
lsn t everything with value in some way illegal ?
you don t trust me , do you ?
or don t you trust yourself , when i come too close for comfort ?
i prefer to maintain a strict separation between business and pleasure .
so why did you invite me for dinner ?
a crepe suzette for madame ?
exactly .
and a coffee for me now please .
you don t mind ?
don t stand on ceremony with me ... in any way ...
just cut the bullshit , okay ? !
your problem is that you re too worried with what others might think .
why do you always stop short ?
because you came from nothing and achieving something is always better than going back ?
follow your desire instead of sitting there like a wet blanket !
you d like to give me a good slap !
go for it !
what s stopping you ?
or , why not make the most of the situation ? !
wouldn t you like to rip off all my clothes and lie me down on top of this table and fuck me senseless , right here ? !
that would be nice , wouldn t it ?
you re capable of anything , but don t risk a thing .
leave her !
leave her
and you leave me .
you ... you ....
are you sure this is what you want ?
absolutely .
and you won t regret it ?
no .
just as well ...
wait ... l ve got a surprise for you ..
great view .
it was one of my cousins that rented me the house , but she didn t offer any family discount .
l m trying to convince her to sell it to me .
you mean you re going to stay here
take that for granted .
whatever it takes .
life is full of surprises , isn t it ?
when we least expect it , something happens and everything s turned on its head .
for instance , if it wasn t for that vagrant , we wouldn t be here together now .
deep down , we should thank him , don t you think ?
remember those letters you once wrote to my father ?
you were working in the bank of portugal and transmitted him confidential information on big decisions in the pipeline ...
mr. afonso resende , the interest rate is due to go up next friday ...
mr. afonso resende the lmf has imposed a 20 % devaluation of the escudo over the next three months ...
mr. afonso resende , the government is planning to privatise the bank ...
mr. afonso resende ...
mr. afonso resende ...
mr. afonso resende ...
mr. afonso resende ...
i found them in my father s safe .
i only learned about them now because he never said a word .
but it helped me understand a great deal .
ln particular , that we were made for one another .
you can tear them up .
what s bred in the bone will come out in the flesh ...
at this rate you ll never get to be minister
cat got your tongue ?
transformed yourself into a phantom ?
come on , say something , show me you re still a man !
who ever said i wanted to be a minister ? ! ...
what do you want then ?
to continue at boaventura s beck and call ?
or do you prefer working as pedro s spy ?
you re never satisfied are you ?
l m content with what l ve already achieved
what ?
you ve achieve nothing !
lf it wasn t ...
yes ? ...
good evening , mr. boaventura ? ...
how are you ?
of course i can .
yes sir , l ll pass by tomorrow .
good evening .
the master only needs to whistle and you come running with your tail wagging .
sorry .
it is better to be adventurous than cautious , because fortune is a woman and if you wish to keep her under your power it is necessary to beat and ill use her .
i never get tired of watching a horse being shoed and appreciate the skill and art of the farrier .
when i was a kid i used to escape here to help mr. manuel our farrier at the time .
he taught me how to ride .
dr. jacinto , what would be your reaction if santamaria proposed to acquire a significant stake in boaventura ...
that depends ... on whether the shareholding violates the agreement you made with the government ...
dr. jacinto , didn t you learn in school that all pacts obtained through violence are null and void ?
the agreement with the government was imposed on me and i only accepted them because it was the only means whereby i could retrieve what was rightfully mine .
you pledged to keep the group under national control ...
what nation ?
the nation crumbled after the revolution , and respectable citizens were left unprotected .
i have every right to protect myself .
look after number one .
that s my cardinal rule . ... and anyone working for me has to accept me the way i am ...
the boaventura group stands at a crossroads , and i still haven t decided the way forward , but if i choose to reach an agreement with the spaniards ,
l d like to be able to count on your unconditional support .
i don t know , mr. boaventura .
you have every right to fight to attain your objectives , but that would leave me in a delicate situation .
l m growing old ... and won t live for ever .
i can t count on my son , but i think lve found the right person to continue my work at boaventura ... a work that not everyone understands , like the politicians who always attempt to interfere .
especially in this little country ,
dr. jacinto , that never understood or accepted great men ...
peace and joy !
that s exactly what i need , francisco .
what s on your mind , jacinto .
lt s pretty serious .
i don t know what to do ...
i have the impression that boaventura is preparing to violate the agreement he made with the government and i will have to choose between loyalty to my boss and my friendship with pedro .
we must try to divine the path traced by our father for each of us , even if that requires us being subjected to the trials and suffering of this world .
l m sure that ll help me enter the kingdom of heaven , but i need a bit more down to earth advice at the moment .
to top it all , ftima s pressurising me to hand her information about boaventura s business dealings .
lf she thinks she can do what she likes with me , she s got another think coming !
love and hatred are one and the same ...
you should realise that ftima is like one of those warriors who not only know how to wield a sword , they know how and where they should inflict wounds .
my advice is : disarm her or make her your ally .
mum ...
where have you been ?
do you want something to eat ?
l ve saved some rice and bean dish ... from yesterday , it s one of your favourites
no thanks , mum l m not hungry .
lt s a bad sign when someone sits at the table , empty handed , without even an appetite !
i just want to relax a little , mum .
remove my feet for a second from the mud l m wading through .
you ve only got yourself to blame .
why can t you face reality .
you re afraid to go your own way .
what do you know about my life ?
i know , i know ...
i know you ve got a good for nothing wife and you married her instead of dumping her .
i know you ve got a bunch of so called friends that are constantly using you and for whom you re always willing to give more .
i know that you ve got a boss who exploits you and that you re always willing to carry out his orders
that s me to a tee ?
and you know why , mum ? ...
yes .
because you re ashamed of me ...
and of yourself ...
l m not and have never been ashamed of you .
i was ashamed to always be the best at school and at the end of classes have to work in mr. amndio s grocery store while the others , even those who flunked their exams would hang out in the bar playing snooker .
i was ashamed of watching my friends play football while i distributed canisters of gas .
i had a raging desire to buy books and had to wait every month for the mobile library to visit to be able to read .
fury and anger ...
for everything i dreamt of possessing and never had .
no , mum .
i never again want to desire something so desperately and not be able to have it .
srgio , bring the mare over here and tie her up ... the male will soon calm down .
lt s nature s way for the female to subdue the male , but ... there s nothing better than money for dominating the female !
did you send out orders to our banks to put pressure on ftima resende ?
yes .
we re almost there fernando ...
i think it s time we started planning our return trip to brazil and this time maybe we won t be returning alone ....
but we need all our artillery prepared for the final battle ...
take a good look , maria helena , at the grandeur of these premises !
this was the largest industrial complex in our country ... this represents the life s work of a great man ...
since this is the first biography since the 197 4 revolution of one of portugal s greatest industrial magnates ,
l d like to take some photographs of mr. boaventura here .
what do you think ?
l ll have a word , but he doesn t like to set foot here .
it reminds him of former times ... when he held great power .... when industry was the engine of this country .
now it s just the stock exchange , speculation ...
maria helena as well as being a very fine journalist is also a very attractive woman ...
dr. fernando ... we re her on business , right ?
of course , business before pleasure !
ln addition to the biography of mr. boaventura
l ve got another excellent proposal to make to you ...
oh yes ?
mr. boaventura , needs an intelligent person such as maria helena ... to oversee his public image and that of his group ...
he needs a public relations firm , not a journalist .
mr. boaventura is a sly fox , he wants something a little more subtle ...
as a result of his wheeling and dealing a highly esteemed newspaper has fallen into his hands ... and maria helena could be the future editor .
ah , but what about the staff !
we ll restructure ... and maria helena can hire journalists she trusts to work alongside her .
don t let anyone enter .
certainly , sir !
l m waiting to hear the reason you invited me here ...
a true citizen of europe .
straight to the point ...
fruit of 15 years of european integration ...
to which you were once a fierce opponent ...
my leftie youth , my dear chap ...
but come on , don t beat around the bush .
get to the point .
here s my proposal ...
that s an offer i can t refuse ...
mr. boaventura is very generous ...
what does he want in return ?
yes ?
ah , it s you maria helena !
commemorate ?
of course l ll go with you .
where ?
take .. it .. off .. take .. it .. off ...
well ?
you sure he can be trusted ?
don t worry ... he s a college student .
a struggling youngster ...
l m thinking of buying afonso resende s brokerage house .
forgive me for saying so ... but that doesn t seem such a good idea ...
don t muddle in affairs that don t concern you ...
santamaria is getting impatient and we can only conclude the sale when we re sure dr. jacinto is on our side .
the government is bound to be against and we can t run any risks at this stage .
l m getting tired of this shit hole of a country ...
we re well on the way to finally resolving that problem ... with the journalist , maria helena ... ... the one from whom we commissioned your biography ..
ah ... a good friend of father francisco s ... and yours ... ... she made a very special invitation to dr. rosa pereira lopes .
lt s your son , mr. boaventura !
lgnore him .
my son died long ago .
dr. ftima ...
the bank manager refused to authorise a transfer to pay this month s salaries because he said our overdraft is already in excess of one million euros ... ... he said he s received orders and that his hands are tied ...
mr. silva , you can tell the staff not to worry and that their salaries will be paid on time , as always .
dr. rosa ?
i don t know whether you are aware , but mr. boaventura made an offer to your husband , and he s been thinking it over but hasn t responded yet which is causing us problems .
mr. boaventura would like to count upon your influence over dr. jacinto ...
l m screwed ...
what s the matter
lf i don t convince jacinto to support boaventura , they ll divulge these photographs ...
this time you went too far ... ... lf that bitch hadn t turned up l m sure i could have made him do whatever i wanted ...
calm down . l ll sort things out .
marta ? ...
could you come to my office please ?
whenever i see you , you never fail to take my breath away .
bastard !
you said you d never done anything illegal and you advised rosa to buy shares in the banco popular before the take over bid ...
rosa bought shares in the banco popular ?
so ...
either you tell me the next deal that boaventura has up his sleeve or your career will terminate before it ever got started .
you know perfectly full that l m capable of doing anything to defend my father s good name !
i already told you that i don t know what boaventura is planning to do , and even if i did i have many good reasons not to tell you .
fine , if you can t choose between him and me , i will ...
l d be grateful if you gave mr boaventura my business card when he arrives .
how funny !
you re just the person i wanted to talk to !
well dr. ftima , what s the business deal you d like to propose ? ...
you instruct your banks to authorise payment of the staff salaries in my father s brokerage house and l ll provide you with some very important information concerning dr. jacinto pereira lopes .
l m all ears .
what s the big hurry ?
read this confidential document that joaquim castro received from spain .
seems that boaventura is planning to resell the banco popular along with the rest of his group to santamaria , in breach of the agreement he made with the government .
why don t you give this to pedro , he s the only one who can do anything !
you re the one working for boaventura and joaquim castro needs confirmation of the deal in order at least to recover the shares that the banco popular holds in his group .
don t count on my support ...
you think you can defeat these guys on your own ?
yes !
l ve got nothing to lose ...
i thought you did !
for the record , if you re in any involved with the boaventura deal , after he returns to brazil you won t even be able to find a job sweeping the streets .
did boaventura whistle again ? ...
whore ...
good day , father francisco .
we haven t seen much of you recently ...
l ve been extremely occupied ...
l m dying to hear the reason for such an urgent visit ...
you ve come to talk about your boys ?
rosa pereira lopes is not the best way to reach jacinto , mr. boaventura ... you should have spoken with me first ...
dr. jacinto is very different from the person you recommended to me when i returned to portugal to recover that which is rightfully mine .
unfortunately he s indispensable in order for me to overcome the resistance that the government will put up to a business deal that i soon plan to make .
jacinto may follow in the footsteps of the circus animal who is taught to perform tricks through a mixture of hunger and beatings and who later turns on its trainer .
this deal is very important for me , francisco .
i want to return to brazil in peace , after getting revenge on this bunch of scoundrels that dared to challenge me ....
maybe i can help you ... but leave rosa out of this ...
yes ? ..
speaking .
at the estate ?
i look forward to it ...
i wouldn t like to get on her bad side ...
the horse is a thoroughbred but needs a firm hand .
you ll have the chance to train it .
lts yours .
mine ?
unfortunately although your banks have raised our credit ,
i won t have much spare time
you deserve more ... much more ... you deserve to move in other circles ...
i don t know if you re ready for the proposal that l m about to make , and i also don t require an immediate reply ...
you want to buy our brokerage house ?
no ...
i want to propose an alliance ... ... turn right and you can t miss it .
okay .
see you , pedro .
lf you had to choose between being loyal to a friend and to an employer , what would you choose , mum ?
i think you ve reached a point where it s become risky to run errands for others but you still haven t gained sufficient courage to get them to run errands for you .
i don t think that even father francisco could summarise my situation so succinctly .
don t talk to me about priests ... priests earn their living listening to poor people s complaints in order to forward them to the rich .
now you ve arrived in the rich man s world you should cut out the middle man .
goodnight .
i knew as much as you did .
boaventura never told me anything about selling to the spaniards ... on the contrary he said he planned to invest more and expand the group s sphere of activities .
who gave you this ?
i don t know , it was delivered unaddressed .
come on , pedro .
forget about it .
this must be another one of castro s stunts ..
boaventura comes from the generation that thinks they can do as they please ... which gives us the right to do whatever it takes ... to defend ourselves .
hey , pedro .
i realise you re in a tight spot , but i sincerely can t see how i can help you .
you have to tell me ...
all of you , paulo , ftima , francisco are so used to treating me like one of your minions , that you don t realise that you behave exactly as boaventura does !
he doesnt deserve your loyalty .
that s for me to decide .
the jacinto who received orders with a tug of his forlock is dead and buried !
tell dr. jacinto to come in now ...
i was told you wanted to speak to me ...
mr boaventura ...
l ve thought long and hard about the possibility of selling the group to the spaniards and l ve decided to give you my full backing ... but it s my duty to advise you that the government s reaction will be violent ...
i don t owe a thing to those upstarts who pretend they re out to save the people while they feast their greedy eyes on what doesn t belong to them .
i do as i please and don t have to answer to anyone !
and what do you want me to do ?
draw up the contract between boaventura and the santamaria group so as to ensure that our position is unassailable .
don t pull such a face .
don t worry what your former colleagues will think of you .
make your own way ... the higher you climb , the more they ll respect you .
you know what freedom is , dr. jacinto ?
true freedom ?
not letting others prevent us doing what we want .
that s why people with power are free .
which do you prefer ?
depends who it s for ...
i prefer the more classic ...
but it s not for a classic marriage ....
you plan to marry ?
i do .
congratulations !
i hope you ll be very happy .
happy ?
only the stupid and nave marry in order to be happy !
a man should fear women when they love us and also when they hate us ...
l m going to marry because i have no suitable successor ... the best i could find turned out to be an idiot ...
that s the trouble with monarchies !
and what democracy haven t resolved either .
on the contrary , we re run by a bunch of thieving bastards with petty ambitions who sell everything on the cheap .
business , dr. jacinto , big business , has its own ethics , that takes no prisoners ... and requires a sense of greatness that is beyond the grasp of ordinary mortals .
but that s all water under the bridge .
lf you haven t got anything more to say for yourself , you can leave .
dr. jacinto !
you re invited to the wedding .
and rosa as well , of course .
dr. jacinto !
don t you want to know the bride s name ?
dr. ftima resende .
yes ?
open up .
are you really going to marry boaventura ?
yes ...
and l m going to join the board .
are you sure that s really what you want to do ?
why shouldn t l ?
lf the person by your side thinks big , you think bigger , if he rises , you ascend to the peak !
this necklace matches the ring that your fianc is about to offer you .
and you know what really pisses me off !
i was the one who helped him while he showed me that he can buy anything he wants ... even the woman
l ve always been in love with !
you never thought of being happy , just happy ?
our happiness resides in being in the centre of big battles .
once in combat the prince must therefore know whether to use the animal or human qualities within him .
i hope it s worth the build up .
read this .
but this is explosive ! ...
what do you expect me to do ?
you know better than i do ...
okay ... but i don t understand why you re doing this ...
you re backing boaventura into a dead end , and shitting on pedro ... which is fine for me ... but what s in it for you ... unless you re planning on becoming a minister ?
no , paulo .
l ve no plans or desires to be a minister .
spaniards buy the boaventura group !
an economic scandal broke this morning in lisbon when dirio de notcias newspaper published a copy of the protocol to sell the boaventura plc to the santamaria group ,
spains largest financial group , which will thus conquer an important share of the portuguese banking market .
minister , is it true that you ve already handed in your resignation ?
no it isn t ... l ve come to parliament in full exercise of my duties to explain the measures to be taken by the government in this situation that we did not create and for which we are not responsible . ... the portuguese government has decided to give instructions to the bank of portugal to veto the deal established between mr. alexandre boaventura and the santamaria group , given that this deal stands in clear breach of the agreements established between the government and mr. boaventura ...
minister , where are these agreements ? ...
mr. boaventura vigorously denies having assumed any commitment to maintain his group under national control .
resign !
weve just received word that the minister of finances , the minister responsible for the support granted by the state to the businessman , alexandre boaventura , handed his resignation to the prime minister who immediately accepted it .
the government has announced in the meantime that it has decided to veto the deal , and has requested the intervention of the bank of portugal .
i confiirm that i handed my resignation to the prime minister but my conscience is clear , and i always acted in the highest national interests ...
don t you feel betrayed by alexandre boaventura ?
how will the government retrieve the funds granted to boaventura ?
who do these upstarts think i am ?
some highwayman ?
l ll set the picture straight ...
fernando , summon this rabble .
l ll tell them what i really think of them and this country of scroungers .
don t react in haste .
keep your cool .
dr. jacinto and his team of attorneys can draw up a response for us .
dr. jacinto ?
wasn t he the one responsible for drawing up the legal foundations of the protocol ?
and wasn t he the one who took part in all the negotiations with the government ?
dr. ftima is right : it s important that he assumes boaventura s position in public .
and explains that the veto has no legal foundations and that our deal can be implemented .
lt s time to show our heavy artillery ! ...
i hope it s going to be worth my while being called out here at this time of night ...
since we re in a crisis situation l ll get straight down to business : the boaventura group needs your newspaper to launch a campaign on our behalf .
lt s essential that several influential columnists write opinion articles on the matter and that readers letters appear criticising the government .
l m not sure if i can fully satisfy your demands ... the readers letters are no problem , but i think it will be very difficult for our columnists , however generous of spirit they may be , to make a radical change in their opinions .
maria helena : if they don t change , tomorrow there won t be any opinions .
what do you want me to do ?
i want you to convince your fellow members of the board of the bank of portugal that the sale of the boaventura group to santamaria is perfectly legal and that there are no grounds for a veto , despite the government s insistence to the contrary .
and what if i , and the rest of the board , don t hold this opinion ?
worse for us all ... especially for you ...
the country would learn of your little drug habit , which would result in your resignation and the nomination of another board member for the bank .
afterwards who knows whether or not the board will change its opinion ...
and if i manage to persuade the board to decide in favour of boaventura plc , what do i get out of it , in addition to the photographs ?
mr. boaventura s eternal gratitude ... which may materialise in many mysterious and wondrous manners .
you can tell mr. boaventura that joo nuno menezes despite being a deserter who abandoned the ideals of his youth , will not betray his friends and is not for sale .
and also tell him that l ll do my very best to ensure that the board approves the veto proposed by the government .
good morning , ladies and gentlemen .
thank you for visiting this institution that has always been so badly treated by the media and the public authorities .
true to my habit of getting straight to the point ,
i would like to state that the agreement reached by me with the santamaria group is perfectly legal in the light of national and community legislation and that no state may obstruct this agreement without standing in breach of the right of freedom of circulation of capital and persons , a cornerstone of the european community .
i repeat , neither i nor the boaventura group stand in breach of any law or norm of the state .
i would therefore like to inform you that we will be appealing to the community institutions in brussels against the decision of the portuguese government to block the deal .
dr. jacinto pereira lopes will explain the legal foundations underpinning our position .
l m sure that the agreement established between alexandre boaventura and jos de santamaria does not violate the laws that govern us .
but the fact that a company or man does not stand in breach of a law does not imply that he is either good or just , it simply establishes him as innocent before these laws .
i have no doubt that all men tend to act in their own personal interest , and while understanding that a man when betraying a friend or breaking a promise may be taking a reasonable course of action to attain his goals ,
i can t help but consider that such actions are censurable even when perfectly legal .
ln my opinion , in this dog eat dog world of ours , there must be limits .
a notion of good and evil must persist above the law .
a business act that violates ethical principles and is based solely on the silence of the law frees me of any obligation to accompany the authors of such an act .
i am convinced that this agreement violates the principles that i was brought up with , stands in breach of prior unwritten agreements , is a failure to keep one s word , and stands in bad faith .
i therefore hereby present my resignation from all positions
i hold in the companies of the boaventura group ...
thank you very much .
dr .... ?
dr. jacinto ...
dr. jacinto ...
dr. jacinto , for rtp ... for rtp ...
dr. jacinto ...
ls it true that you ll be joining the government ?
the rdio clube portugus has ascertained that dr. jacinto pereira lopes will be invited for the post of minister of finances .
his nomination is warmly backed by political analysts and even by many members of the opposition ...
sorry for my behaviour back there in parliament ... but l m sure you realise i had no choice ...
forget it ... it doesn t matter any more ...
why don t we leave all this and go far , far away .... just the two of us ...
you re the only one who can see the light at the end of the tunnel in the midst of all this confusion .
what do you think i should do : support boaventura or the government ?
let the dust settle and you ll soon recognise who holds the reigns of power .
yes .
speaking ...
now is fine ...
good evening , how are you prime minister ...
of course ... l d be delighted ...
dad ....
dad ...
upon this a question arises . : whether it be better to be loved than feared , or feared than loved .
but because it is diffiicult to unite these qualities in one person , it is much safer to be feared than loved , when , of the two , either must be dispensed with .
minister !
will mr. boaventura s death affect the government s position ? ...
how did you feel when you learned of this morning s tragedy ?
the minister of finances deeply regrets the death of the great businessman ,
alexandre boaventura ... together with his son .
mr. boaventura made a unique contribution to the development of the country and the national economy .
thank you very much .
dr. ftima boaventura has been nominated chairman of the board .
what s your reaction to this nomination ?
ln relation to alterations in the board of directors of the group ,
i have no comments to make .
thank you very much , good morning to you all .
lt s going to be a pleasure doing business with you .
on the government s instructions , the mtua central de lnvestimentos , the state owned bank chaired by father francisco , purchased the boaventura group , thus avoiding it falling into spanish hands
jacinto pereira lopes and ftima resende are increasingly seen together in social events and gossip magazines are rife with rumours of a forthcoming wedding , to be celebrated by father francisco .
