her eyes tell me , she cares for you alexander ,
perhaps too much .
in the ways of my country ,
those who love too much , lose everything ,
those who love with irony , last .
your father must been turning in his grave alexander ,
after all this time , a sheeps daughter .
but justice , this girl has spirit .
and what' s the point alexander ,
just take her as your concubine .
because i want a son ,
damn you .
but then half your nobles have sisters you made fine macedonian mothers .
to take an asian as my queen not a captive ,
is a sign of deep respect for our subjects ,
it will more than anything real us together , unify us .
which is not to say i won' t take a macedonian one day .
as a second wife , and insult macedonia .
alexander ! , this is about the other of our kingdom .
exactly , what can be won alexander ?
we came here to asia to punish them for the crimes we have achieved at .
seven years from home ,
now we drift from one far region to another ,
chasing nomads and bandits , when macedonia bleeds its manpower ,
for what ? to build roads in asia ? to give these people cities ?
to found cities , and expand our reach is not to drift parmenion .
what benefit to macedon ?
it' s far richer than before .
what would you given them ?
with respect for your age parmenion that you fought better , dug a metal when your flank was crumbling we could have had dorius ..
how dare you nearcus !
general nearcus chief boy .
alexander spread our flag too thin , there was nothing my father any of you could have done ...
sit down .
alexander i have known you since you were born ,
i supported you with your father' s death ,
at the very least fall use this city ,
and in respect to the counselor chose you king ,
give us a mecedonian aire , macedonian aire .
you have been heard clearly .
and after the wedding you will take brigades back to babylon ,
where i look to you , and in tibider , greece , to maintain our empire and supply this expedition .
i will way to the north , my advance army at merican .
and i pray to apollo you soon realize from your father' s path .
ah damn you parmenion by the gods and your apollo .
what was in my fathers guts ?
was it over ripe in reason like yours ?
he never lusted for war alexander or enjoyed it so .
he consulted his peers in counsel , among equals , the macedonian way .
he didn' t make decisions based on his personal desires .
i have taken us further than my father ever dreamed .
old man , we are in new worlds .
alexander , be reasonable !
were they ever meant to be our equals ?
share our rewards ?
you remember what aristotle said ,
an asian , what would a wedding vow ever mean to a race that has never kept their word to a greek ?
aristotle be damned !
by zeus and all the gods ,
what makes you so much better than them cassander ?
better than you really are , in you and those like you is this .
alexander . what disturbs me most is not your lack of respect for my judgement ,
it is our content for a world far older than ours .
and so 10 years , after his mother' s incistence he marry a macedonian ,
our union , greek and barbarian ,
the most powerful man in the world , took a girl of no political significance , why ?
some say it was for alliance with the tribes ,
others a desire for a successor ,
and yet others said alexander truly fell in love ,
who roxana rita really was , i doubt that any of us , ever saw further than the pools of those black eyes .
alexander , special for you .
on this glorious occasion ,
i toast this great army that has given so much ,
and in honor of them those of you who sought out with us 7 long years ago ,
i pronounce , all your debts paid fort with from the royal treasury .
and in honor of my bride ,
my beautiful bride , we recognize the many women who shared the long hard road with us ,
i grant them darius be fitting a proper marriage .
but what about our boys ?
and lastly , lastly the gods demand no less of us ,
that your children with these women be given a proper greek education , and military training ,
under our protection , so is to be the new soldiers of our kingdom in asia .
i found it in egypt ,
the man that sold it to me said ,
it came from a time when man worshipped sun and stars ,
i will always think of you as the sun alexander ,
and i pray your dream will shine on all men .
i wish you a son , you' re a great man ,
you love him ?
he is epheistian .
there are many different ways to love roxana , come .
you have no fear , it' s fitting , a man searches for a woman at birth stop ,
and finds her .
the myth becomes real .
great man , scared now ?
you i kill now .
do it , end it , i would do the same .
i will die a fool for this love .
my life is now yours .
you will have my son .
who is this woman you call your queen alexander ?
a hill girl , you with your breeding ,
already she makes enemies , with her strong clumsey nature ,
do not confuse us , i was never a barbarian as philips said ,
we are of achilles royal blood ,
zeus is your father . oh i understand she brings you some happiness ,
but hear me when i tell you act , and act soon ,
and after 7 years people wonder who is this king alexander ,
i have given you ample proof ,
and tibider daily undermines your authority ,
return to babylon and strengthen your center ,
or come home to macedonia and reorganize ,
but do not chase your dream further east ,
your life and mine depend on it ,
remember my only thoughts are of you ,
as you too must face your glorious destiny ,
think i' il leave your mother , provide for me , protect me from your enemies when you are gone ,
and remember always , it is i who loves you more than any .
if only you were not a pale reflection from my mothers heart .
who did this ?
tell me .
never will you find a man as devoted as i ...
the conspiracy deeply upset alexander ,
not only because it involved the young pages, who shared his dream ,
but more intimately it implicated filotus ,
his companion from boyhood , who is captain of alexander' s royal guards .
alexander , remember me for who i am .
i do remember you filotus , but not as you remember yourself ,
it appears to me and your peers here that true weather of your soul is ambition .
no ...
none of us defended filotus ,
but then again none of us ever liked him ,
and of course his power was carved up by the rest of us .
before he died , we tortured him ,
to find out what his father parmenion knew ,
but this we never learned ,
but what to do with parmenion and his 20, 000 troops guarding our supply line , was a far more delicate matter ,
was he innnocent in this ? or had he decided to act before age furthered with his power .
we will be devied
the men will follow their king .
alexander will not be there .
necessity required alexander to act ,
they sealed the camp within the hour of the first accusation of filotus .
then go antiginous and litus , and go quickly .
3 days hard riding antiginous and litus to parmenion ,
his soldiers accepted the finding of guilt against parmenion ,
as they understood that the head of family was responsible for all .
litus , antiginous .
i remember a mark of the once ,
that love eluded alexander as much if not more , than finding the end of the world .
in the spring , alexander marched an army of 150, 000 ,
across the passes of the hindu kush ,
into the unknown ,
in his dream it was the promised to the end of the wall ,
we were now a mobile empire stretching back thousands of miles to greece ,
cooks and architects , doctors and somiers , money lenders and wives , children , lovers, whores .
and forget not the slaves that bent working spines a new beast , ravaged or expanded ,
for better or worst ,
no occupied territory remained the same again .
although devoted to roxana ,
alexander' s visits to her tent diminished as a year , then two , went by with out a successor , wounding alexander' s great pride .
the savarias are saying that zeus chained permitheous up there ,
in one of those caves ,
they say there is a giant eagles nest just above it ,
suppose he drops down each night to peck out poor permitheous ' liver .
you remember what aristotle told us of these mountains ?
yes i do , that when we reach these heights ,
we look back and see macedonia to the west , and the outer ocean to the east ,
but i fear this world is far larger than anyone dreamed ,
the world of titans .
the scouts have been up every known trail alexander ,
there is no way across ,
except to the south , into india .
were we gods , we would breach these walls into the eastern ocean .
we will alexander , in a few years time we will return .
but first the men must seek homes .
have you found your home ?
tell me .
the more and more i think it will be alexandria .
well at least it' s hot , she loved it there .
women bring men home , i have no such feeling .
you have babylon alexander , where your mother awaits your invitation .
yes , i have babylon , but each land , each boundary i cross ,
i strip away another illusion ,
i sense death will be the last ,
yet still i push harder , and harder to reach this , home .
where has our eagle gone ?
we must go on tolomy ,
til we find an end .
india
india , the land where the sun was born ,
fabled to be even richer than persia ,
had never been explorered or conquered .
from the beginning alexander struggled to unify a land without a
kings who conspired against one another ,
a labrynth of tribes urged on by zelix and philosophers ,
to die by the 1000' s for their strange gods .
craters advanced party fought against men with hairy skins , who were tiny , and lived in the of trees .
until ephistian convinced us these were animals who immitated man but wore their own skin ,
they called this tribe monkey .
monkey .
and then there was the rain .
never before had we seen water that fell from the gods ,
for 60 days and nights .
you know better , what' s your son going to say , come on man ,
i will be with you at your side .
claytis , bring the snake healers , , ...
what happened lad ?
it is to the neck .
oh no , hold on , hold on , breathe , breathe .
our quest for gold and glory evaporated as we realized there was none to be had ,
tempest westled . ???
we massacred all indians who resisited ,
and with the local water putred , we drank the strong wine .
as we moved southeast ,
alexander often returned the lands we conquered to their defeated kings , so as to make of them allies ,
but this did not set well with the army ,
they began to wonder if alexander was on some crazed quest ,
to imitate the glory of heiriclies .
tibigous .
and to my mother' s god dienisus ,
who were told by indian allies traveled here before heiriclies .
some 6 thousand years ago , to a hero .
you lose face , these indians they are low evil people .
you do not try to understand them .
i try , but this i know alexander .
in persia you are great king ,
here they hate you .
let us go back to babylon , there you are strong .
we will talk about this later .
yes , later , talk .
i shall come , tonight .
and i shall wait , to let my king .
your majesty ,
a toast to bigous ,
on the 30, 000 beautiful persian boys we are training to fight in this great army .
to the memory of philip , had he lived ,
to see his macedonians transformed into such a pretty army ,
to philip , to a real hereo .
declitus , it is your appointment as set trap .
a fancy way of putting it tolomy .
but we all know what a pension and an exile is after 30 years service .
you call governing this major province , exile ?
has your majesty given any of his closest companions a province so far from home ?
then you will not make a very good set trap will ya cleitis ?
so be it , let me rot in macedonian rags ,
rather than shine in eastern pomp , ???
i won' t quake and bow down like the you have around you ,
epheistian , neiarcus , perticus .
as governor of one of our most asian asatropies , cleitis does it not accur to you that if my persian subjects bow down before me it is important for them to do so .
do i insist on greeks doing the same ?
you accept greek offerings as a son of zeus do you not ?
only when offered .
then why do you not refuse ? these vain flatteries ,
what freedom is there to bow before you ?
you bow before heiriclies do you not , and he was mortal ,
but a son of zeus
how can you so young compare yourself to heiriclies ?
why not ?
i have achieved more in my years , traveled as far , probably farther .
heiriclies did it by himself .
did you conquer asia by yourself alexander ?
i mean who planned the asian invasion ?
was it not your father ?
or is his blood no longer good enough , zeus
you insult me cleitis ,
you mock my family becareful ,
never
but your father take barbarians as his friends .
ask us to fight with them as equals in war ,
are we not good enough any longer ,
i remember a time when we could talk as men , straight to the eye ,
none of this scraping , groveling ,
now your his then ? ????
take a barbarian , jealous wife , and dirt color queen .
go quickly cleitis before you ruin your life .
does not your great pride fear the gold any longer ?
this army , this army is your blomp boy .
without it your nothing .
you no longer serve the purpose of this march ,
get him from my sight .
i dont serve your purpose , what was i serving ...
arrest him for treason .
who' s with me , who' s with him ,
i call for the zeus to witness , i call you to travel for him ,
i will see this conspiracy cut , take him !
what about poor parmenion ,
have you no shame ?
a great deafspot falls king .
you barbarian mother living shame .
let me pass ,
i am the queen .
i want to see him , i have waited 3 days .
he says none , not even you .
he needs me .
no , he does not .
and he needs you ?
ephistian you make a mistake .
the army needs your re assurance .
alexander ,
like an old lover they forgive but they will never forget .
you know more than any crazed deeds are done by men who took and never regretted .
you' re alexander , pitty and grief will only destroy you .
have i become so arrogant , that i' m going blind .
sometimes , to expect the best of everyone is arrogance .
then cleitis spoke true ,
i have become a tryant .
immortal and they know it ,
and they forgive you because you make them proud of themselves .
i have failed , look at me .
macedonia 8 years before
philip king of macedonia , and leader of the greeks .
all my life i have waited to see greeks travel with respect for macedonia , today' s our day .
they say already , philip was a great general , but alexander is simply great .
if you ever insult me again , i will kill you .
missed you , in the spring persia , command my horse from the right ,
i' m honored father , i would not miss it for all the gold in the world .
which one day you will have .
making himself a 13th ghost ,
he' s run so much wild , my poor philip , he has lost his mind .
your majesty .
atilus .
i hope the prince is enjoying the spectacle as much as our regent .
he is very tired .
bring the rest of the guard .
royal guard, to the arena march .
no guard your majesty with all this crowd ?
greeks all over the place .
cleitis , this man you can always trust alexander ,
treat him as you would me , he guard your back for you .
yes father .
people are guarding today cleitis ,
that these greeks say for themselves where i can walk through my people ,
then let them call me tyrant , in the main garden after my entry only ,
cleitis make sure the wine flows steady all day , i want them to like me .
what you told , i go in alone , follow with the main guard , go on , go on ,
father it is best i go with you .
you want the world to say your my successor ?
is that what she wants ?
ah do not look so hurt all the time alexander , be a man ,
you cut yourself lucky you were here at all today after your public display ,
by hericlies , by zeus and by all the gods obey me this once .
have courage father , and go on your with with joice on each step ,
and i may recall your vow .
and now our beloved king ,
philip in whose honor this game begin .
xenus i told you ...
king lives , alexander , son of philip , the most destined king .
a king now, you' re king .
may the gods bless alexander .
alexander !!
go .
how can you pay so shamelessly in public ?
because it was meant to be .
this is not how i wanted to become king .
no one blames you .
they blame me already , behind my back , in secret .
slander is not power .
shame is ?
who killed my father , tell me , tell me or shall i put you on trial for his murder .
he had help ,
did you help him ?
no , never , why , why would i ?
so many wanted it , greeks , persian , men .
your mad , a curse , you have unleashed furies you dont even know their power ,
ah now who is exagerating , even if it was the wish of your heart .
that is a lie , he was my father , i loved him .
he was not your father , you owe no blood debt to that man .
you lie and lie and lie , so many lies you spundle like a sorcerous confusing me .
look at you , look at you , you are everything that he was not ,
he was coherced , you are fine ,
he was a general , you are a king ,
he could not rule himself , and you shall rule the world .
you are so cursed by the gods when you speak like this ,
such thick pride , and no mourning for your husband .
mourn , what do you know of
no alexander , zeus is your father ,
act like it .
but first i get to kill you , you murdered me in my cradle , you birthed me in a cycle of hate , hate you are for those stronger than you ,
hate you have for men .
i taught you my heart alexander and by zeus and einisis you grew beautiful ,
damn your sorcerous soul .
your soul is mine alexander .
no , no ! you have taken from me everything i have ever loved .
stop it , stop acting like a boy , your a king , act like one ,
parmenion is with us for once ,
execute atlas with out delay ,
then confiscate their lands and root out that family forever .
you really never can laugh you monster , you heart breaker .
how will you live out the year like this ?
have you learned nothing from philip ?
no from you mother .
the past .
what have i done , to make you hate me so ?
one day , you will understand this , that i have only you in my heart ,
i know what you need , now is the time ,
the gods favor you , great wealth , power , conquest ,
all you desire , the world is yours , take it .
kiss/ kids ???
he never saw his mother again .
and while he was away fighting the northern tribes ,
olympius had philips new wife and her infant son murdered ,
by necessity he had her uncle atilus executed .
india
of course you have fears , we all have fears ,
because no one has ever gone this far before ,
and now we are weeks from the encircling ocean , our root home , we will build a fleet of ships and sail all the way back down the nile to egypt ,
and from alexandria we shall be home within weeks , and to be reunited with our loved ones , to share our great treasures and tales of asia ,
and to enjoy our unperishable glory to the ends of time .
follow alexander .
what ?
silence ?
we are with you alexander .
a hereo , where are these great amazons of myth who dare to fight and kill men ,
where have they gone ?
we will never leave you alexander .
who are these tribes ahead compared to those we have vanquished ?
antigilus ,
you break my heart , you men , afraid ,
* crowd talking *
my king , aint no belly aching ,
i wont tolerate an end to my units ,
i lost men , young ones never been with a woman , some died of disease , some were butchered and severed with the banks and ox' s .
some died good , some just didn' t get no luck , but they died .
40, 000 i come over with 8 years ago ,
and we march after you over 10, 000 miles ,
in the rain , and the sun , we fought for you , some of us 50 battles with an end , that killed many of our .
and now when i look around ,
how many of them faces do i see ?
and now you want us to fight more of these crazy monkey tribes east of here , we here talk of thousands of these elephant monsters , there are a hundred more of us ,
carus , good carus , who better than you to speak ,
most noble of men ,
but you know there is no part of me without a scar or bone broken ,
by sword , knife , stone , catapult and club ,
i have shared every hardship with all of you .
and you have my king , and we love you for it .
but too many have died .
you have no children alexander ,
and we are just humble men we seek no disturbance with the gods ,
all we wish for , is to see our children ,
and our wives and our grandchildren one last time ,
before we join our brothers in the dark house they call hades .
yes , you are right .
i have be negligent .
i should have sent you veterans home sooner , and i will , the first of you shall be the servant shields ,
and then every man who has served 7 years ,
with full pensions from our treasury ,
respected , rich , loved , you will be treated by your wives and children as hereos for the rest of your lives .
and a joy peaceful death ,
but you dream , your simplicity , long ended when you took persia children .
how you thickened your holdings with plunder and jewels .
because you have fallen in love with all the things in life that destroy men .
do you not see ?
and you as well as i know , that as the year decline and the memories stale ,
and all your great victories fade ,
it will always be rememberd , you left your king in asia ,
for i will go on with my agents .
to the jackals with ya alexander ...
* crowd talking *
i came for your bastard children , i have taken nothing for myself ,
and all i am asking is for one more month .
i have taken my father and your father ... so go on, hand it to the barbarians for their courage .
i go east . * crowd *
who said that ?
you will never make it back to macedonia .
you dispicable coward , come forth , make your accusations public .
why , so you could have us killed , son of zeus .
you desecrate your father' s memory .
hide , hide in the smoke ...
* alexander talking * he called me murderer ,
i have no such blood on my hands .
after all i have done for you , you swine, you cowards , traitors ,
come on then , where are your daggers ?
he dove on , south to the outer ocean .
in smashing the mutany and executing the ring leaders ,
he did nothing to my mind , that any general in war time would have not done .
but clearly the army was divided , that alexander was no longer loved by all .
they come , gather will strong as gods , come over with your left , break hard with your right ,
the air is rot , a waste of time .
brook shields !
battle positions !
prepare your knives , follow me .
come macedonians why do you hang back hurry .
* alexander gives orders *
our lives are in jepeordy , veniegar ride to farnicus to tell him we will charge to the center at once ,
alucis find a placing by the river so i can bring all cavalry to the center ,
we must reached creterus before it is too late .
to the center !!
hold macedonians , ride , ride !!
... no !!! ... !!
the horses will not go , on foot then .
come osiphilus .
it is only sun and shadow ,
you and i together one last time osiphilious ,
there is another leveling plain to live with great courage ,
and to die leaving another ever lasting failure , come macedonians , why do you retreat , do you want to live forever ?
in the name of zeus attack !!!
the king is down .
to the king !!
it was the bloodiest of his battles ,
pure butchery , the end of all reason .
we would never be men again .
he lives !!!
men of macedon , we are going home .
we are going home .
his life should have ended in india but that' s myth ,
in life , hericlies died of a poison shirt given in arab by his jealous wife ,
making his devotions to the gods at the end of the great journey ,
alexander bid the east farewell and marched his army directly west ,
across the great cadroshen desert , seeking the shortest route home to bablyon ,
til this day there is no accounting of how many died .
it was the worst blunder of his life ,
and when he finally re entered babylon after 6 years in the far east ,
alexander again seized the imagination of the world by taking 2 more wives .
just last night ,
its the water your majesty , he mixed it with the wine .
but how can this be , tiphis of india ?
oh i wouldn' t tax yourself your majesty , a few good nights rest will do it , but no wine , or ...
come doctor .
i feel better , soon i will be able .
we leave for arabia in the spring and i can' t leave with out you .
arabia ,
you used to trust me like a shiek ,
what if you wouldn' t
you were the only one who would never let me win ,
the only one who has ever been honest with me ,
you saved me from myself ,
please do not leave me ephistian .
my alexander ,
i remember the old man who wants to be achilles and then out did him .
and you petroplis , and then what happened ?
now is the myth only young men believe .
but how beautiful the myth it was .
oh we reach we fall .
oh ephistias .
i worry for you with out me .
i am nothing without you ,
come fight ephistian , we will die together ,
it is our destiny .
we will have children with our wives ,
and our sons will play together as we once did , a 1000 ships will launch from here ephistian ,
we will round arabia , and sail up the golf to egypt ,
from there we will build a channel through the desert ,
and add to the middle sea ,
and then we will move on carthage , and that great island sicily ,
they will pay large tribute ,
after that , the roman tribe , good fighters , we will beat them .
and then explore the northern forests and add the pillars of hericlies to the western ocean ,
and then one day , not 10 years from now , babylon with its deep water harbor ,
be the center of the world , alexandrias will grow ,
populations will mix and travel freely , asia and europe will come together ,
and we will grow old ephistian ,
looking at our balcony ,
at this new world .
ephistian , ephistian .
* screams *
where is this doctor ?
i can' t explain this your majesty , it is not possible .
i swear by apollo ...
secure him , take him out now and execute him . come away , come away .
liars , liars , all of you , get out , get out now !!
be gone with you , get out , get out !!
are you drunk again ?
get out .
he' s dead .
who ?
many hated him , but i dont think any other would have dared .
ephistian is dead ?
wait a minute .
are you mad ?
taken from me all that i have ever known .
the fury is too tight , damn your miserable heart , baby !
alexander i have your child .
alexander , my husband , my king , we have a son .
my poor boiled fated son .
never touch me again .
noooooooo !!!
one last charm !
for the dog .
to my old friends .
and to the myths .
to the next door , ???
yes come , come to babylon ,
i await you , your only loving son .
wait , wait , vultures , wait , my son alexander ... please * crying * my son .
alexander we beg you , tell us who , who will rule this great empire for you ? * whispers * fear not ....
zeus is your father !
alexander the army will divide , satripus will revolt with out your orders , please tell us who .
babylon , persia june 323 b. c.
in the 10th of june , a month short of his 33rd year ,
alexanders great heart finally gave out ,
and as he vowed he joined ephistian .
but in his short life he achieved with out doubt , the mythic glory of his ancestor hercules and more ,
his sacrifice was an early death , but in keeping to his side of the bargain ,
i can not help but feel he conquered death as well .
olympius' s transgression in the murder of his father is to my mind a probability ,
he' s a burden ,
alexander was too in love with the glory for him to steal it ,
but by blood and blood alone he was guilty .
within hours we were fighting like jackals for his corpse ,
wars of the world had begun , 40 years off and on they endured ,
cassander in greece , crackelus and antigunus in western asia , solucus and perdicus in the east , myself in egypt ,
until we divided his empire in 4 parts .
cassander certainly proved his will to power ,
and 7 years later he had olympius executed ,
and within 12 years he achieved the complete destruction of alexanders bloodline ,
when he poisoned roxana
alexandria and alexander' s 13 yr old son , the true aire to the empire .
but the truth is never simple , and yet it is ,
the truth is , we did kill him ,
by silence we consented , because , because we couldn' t go on ,
but by aries did we had to look forward to , but did we discard it in the end , like fighters ,
after all this time to give away our wealth to asian sick offense we despised ,
mixing the races , harmony , pah ,
how he talked of these things ,
or wasn' t it really about alexander another population ready to obey him ,
i never believed in his dream , none of us did .
that' s the truth of his life ,
the dream is exhaustis , they must die before they kill us with their blasted dreams .
carcas throw all that away , it is old fools rubbish , you shall write ,
he died of fever and weakend condition .
yes
how he could have stayed home in macedonia and married the eastern family ,
he would have died a celebrated man ,
but this was not alexander ,
all his life he fought to free himself from fear ,
and by this , and this alone he was made free ,
the freest man i have ever known .
his strategy was one of increasing loneliness and impatience with those who could not understand ,
and if his desire to reconcile greek in barbarian ended in failure ,
huh , what failure ?
his failure towered over other men' s successes .
i have lived , i have lived long life
but the glory and memory of man will always belong to the one' s who follow their visions ,
with the greatest of ease is the one that i will call makus alexandrus ,
the greatest alexander of them all .
