you have much time with the company delta .
an entire life , charlie .
17 missions in central america ,
6 in the average east .
4 in the asian southeast
a true one comes back to the world .
one has remembered perfect , since the first day of trainings .
the perfect soldier .
the works are always clean " , it is this what your superiors say .
no engaged mission in yours i register in cadastre .
you know the cost to train , to equip e to keep a soldier as you ?
756, 000 dollars , charlie .
it is a work life for some people in this country .
ages the defense and the support of thousand that not even they know you .
we have in itself a great investment .
for where it wants to start ?
for the principle .
good , i was born in a small village  this i do not begin .
it is important that it understands because it is here , lieutenant .
it understands reason , not ?
i believe that the word correcta he is " interrogatory
e that more believes ?
that in it equips delta they do not like of that they resign .
because we do not start for i begin it ?
i and the shooter auxiliary curtis bantree foiz us atribuida a mission to assure an area where venda would have place one of foreign weapons
zeblstan , close to turkey two months before
we had photos of satellite of the place .
we arrive thirty and six hours before venda .
we had air support of a helicopter e one equips in land , infiltrated in venda two men and a woman .
our work was to observe and to protect .
supposedly , it was a routine work .
but it did not leave as we waited .
what i need at this moment it is a cold mug great e of beer .
it will be the first thing that i will make soon that this finishes .
to grasp me it an enormous piece of pernil " new iorque " .
to light the old barbecue with firewood proper to arder , of the original .
wise people who the best place to find firewood to arder is in new mexico ?
new mexico .
well , it does not have nothing nor nobody back in low .
already we are here to the 34 hours , charlie .
you find that the photos of satellite they were correctas ?
yes .
i do not see none venda of missiles stolen for here .
they are , alone there with the salesman .
i do not see nothing more than dust .
but that i know .
you are to think about giving up ?
to the times .
perhaps it obtains one of these works dull clerical with a secretary and a computer .
oh not , not , not , not .
men as we we are not men clerical , we are not friends of the office .
you know perfectly .
the old veterans say : " you never leave the work he does not matter how much you try to run away .
such time could be the first one .
already i lost some things in this time all , you tan .
she is your wife , not ?
you know charlie , is always the wife , it believes , i i know .
attention , arrived ours equips .
charlie , i see two hidden , the 274 meters daqui the northwest of the slope of this hill .
understood .
it is here .
it has somebody that me listening .
ready and to the wait .
it has two hidden detrs of you , in the rocks to one 37 meters .
it has advanced with the operation .
e comes the bad ones there .
you bring the money ?
yes , i have it here .
it shows it .
this seems to be the leader .
he is complete .
you want to see the merchandise ?
i can count four feiosos .
understood .
excrement , it is of ours equips .
they have one of ours , charlie .
the combat procedure is always to kill first the officers .
e later the soldiers , this i very know well .
but of this time he was different .
who decided that you did not follow the procedure due ?
i felt that the member feminine it could be engaged .
somebody was to think to kill it ?
not at this moment .
e then as it was that it determined what it was in danger ?
this is my quality .
this is badly , charlie .
they are to maltreat rapariga .
it is an excrement .
distance ?
155 meters .
that devil is to pass ?
excrement
charlie !
this is badly , this is badly !
charlie .
officers first , ok ?
far it already
officers first , that devils
my brother !
of where they see the detonations ?
i waited much time !
nothing of this it is guilt yours , charlie .
they knew the risk to work infiltrated .
acol , in top of this mountain .
it goes off .
brave one " , " brave one " " red fox " i need immediate transport for house .
we go charlie !
red fox " , " red fox " , we go the way .
my brother .
i will make to pay them and i will use its money to kill them .
e was for house !
correcto .
bantree and i returned los angeles .
where lives its wife ?
not .
we are separate
moan .
what in it says respect to them , is what was transferred after the return .
you know what she transferred herself .
he says it to me in its proper words .
i returned the los angeles e took me about two days to be able to contactar my wife and children .
e later i notified my superiors that it would resign to the position .
macarthur park los angeles .
ei !
my music is not gratis , wise people ?
idiot !
you find that i make this for my health ?
very obliged and that god blesses you . you also .
pap !
ol , mine princesinha .
you are very well .
pap , the sam said that it does not go to take the small lunch
i said to it that he has , it is not truth ?
what he transfers himself ?
today i do not want to go .
but reason ?
but you do not have that to go , you and i only go .
sam ?
sam , you have that to go with your father .
lisa and sam , they go to search your things .
it goes .
ol !
ol !
somebody bound of your office asking for you .
it says please to them , that not they bind you for here , ok ?
it is well .
you did not say nothing to them , already not you live here , has eight months almost .
yes , already it said to them , but i assume that you had a bad day .
i thought that it was clearly that we would respect our space during the period of separation .
i am to try .
how goes the work ?
well , debtor .
he hears , i have that to go my head has a presentation inside of one necessary hour and to have this orderly one .
already it has six months that i am in this place e still i seem a novice .
mam , that is as was when all we lived together , in it is truth ?
not in such a way , my love .
vai and takes your knapsack , your father it will leave you in the school after the small lunch .
it is well .
never wise person when you would come back , charlie e i learned not to import itself , but the children
she has one week behind , sam saw a war film
i woke up ace three of the morning and it it was in my bed , to cry e to say that you already would not come back .
but i came back .
e for how much time ?
one week , perhaps two .
i do not know .
you go to give up another time ? the last one lasted two weeks .
maggie hears , please .
all we have decisions to take , e this , you already took it .
not charlie , you he is that you took it .
you seem me well .
you also .
pap , already i am ready .
mam , you do not want to come connosco ?
of this time not , wanted .
you bring everything ?
yes .
sam , please forwards you ?
ol son , spirit .
it gives one i hug to mam .
until soon .
i see you after the school .
ol !
that surprise , they look at who is here .
ol , maysie .
ol , bonequinha .
then , that they go to want ?
the custom and all together ?
pancakes of wheat for all . it does not have problem .
how you are ?
oh , already you know , well .
people treating to buy the kiosk stop a coffee gourmet with healthful food .
we do not want this , or want ?
not .
uncle donnie !
ol .
how it was ?
we speak later .
you want to take the small lunch connosco ?
we go to eat wheat pancakes .
pancakes of wheat !
yes .
who wanted you to command ?
only a coffee .
oh yes , you had an bad night ?
it only gives a coffee , maysie to me .
certain .
sam is depressed .
not , i am not .
it has some problem , sam ?
it is that i do not want that mine pap it becomes to go .
it has that to work , it is not truth ?
vocs is well ?
small lunch with me tomorrow ?
clearly , without lack .
it was to think that this end of week we could go to the coast , that finds ?
also with mam ?
i do not know , can be that mam she is very busy .
i know youngsters , i i know
it looks at , your mother and i we have a pair of things to make right but this does not mean that it does not come back you to see , ok ?
no longer i want that you go another time .
sam you are not rude , somebody can see us .
ide already , the school goes to start ,
i go to be here to your wait when to leave , is well ?
it gives a kiss to me .
this is my place .
sai .
it forgives ?
it disappears .
it pardons its majesty .
vai you .
not , not , eh it is ruined .
it is not to function .
not , it stows to the wait of 15 the 20 minutes
i had as much hunger that i had that to buy an icecream .
please , it leaves to help me it .
you she is mrs. snow , is not truth ?
yes .
my god , i am friend of its husband , charlie we combined to take the small lunch , but something was transferred in in the school , with the small sammy and the smooth one .
how ?
with the sam and the smooth one ?
yes , something was transferred .
what occurred ?
it looks at , it parks its car and it comes with me , my car is there , goes in it .
it puts you in the car .
we go , we go
vocs had been deceived in the person . the mouth is silent and will run all good .
vocs cannot drag me for the streets thus without more nor less .
that is america , this happens every day .
the hunted one is to start , my friends .
they go .
the bear is in movement .
for now we have mam ursa e fast we will have the ursinhos also .
this will make with that pap bear it comes to have connosco .
e remembers to you , this is a city very great e our bear it has friends that we cannot see .
we have that in assuring that not it to them they find until the hunted one finishes .
how it is our " ursita " ?
the " ursita " is ready .
she is charlie well , now the game it comes until the o your proper patio .
hut of curtis bantree .
ol beauty !
where you go ?
it carries you well , you are a good dog .
you go to be to take care of of the fort ?
you want that it brings you a beefburger with bone ?
i adore you .
a beefburger and we go to make a barbecue .
where you go ?
pods not to come , you have to be to take care of of the fort .
you go to make this for me ?
until soon .
ol , is curtis , is not in house , please its message leaves .
ol ?
specialist delta , curtis braintree ?
bantree .
i am to speak with
it forgives me , the american names they are difficult to pronounce .
yes , clearly .
what i can make for itself ?
not .
better it is what i can make for itself ?
it hears , i give 5 seconds to it before it hangs it .
five seconds , are what necessary .
it is well , then what it is that you can make for me ?
i can assure that you to it she is a person deceased .
i am ?
therefore very obliged for the acknowledgment .
until soon then .
good bye .
as it was felt when knowing of " ending " of bantree sergeant ?
ending " ?
this is a good word !
trmino " , " neutralization " , " extermination " , " fire friend " this another one also is good .
private " , " chuis illegal "
vocs has an agency that only they can divulge this classroom of words . e still calls to everything this " a circus " . military rules .
i know the rules .
then it answers to my question .
how i felt me ?
my priority is my family my wife and my children .
e as they see , you tan was as of the family .
debtor !
he says !
sir
he is for itself .
yes !
good days , charlie .
with who i speak ?
an old enemy .
oh , yes ?
which ?
what it is that you want ?
i want you it you , charlie .
then because you do not leave of where you are to be able to see you .
because this is not the way as you make , it is not ?
i do not know of that me you are to speak .
somebody wants to speak with you , charlie .
charlie , helps me !
everything goes to finish well , love .
now that i have your attention
who are you ?
ok charlie , these are the rules
first i go to kill you , as you killed my brother and to my men .
here and in front of all !
in my country , when we hunt a bear we do not kill it there exactly , we give to it chance to it to escape .
i want that you run , charlie .
i want that you think about as it will be your death .
i want that you feel fear to die and not to know nor when nor where .
it only is plus another day for me , friend .
it thinks about your family , charlie .
you are a man died , only that still you do not know it .
you arrived late , already i have them in my power .
it silences you and listening .
you think that you could kill my brother e to my men e to come back to your country , without more nor less , as if everything was forgotten .
not charlie .
of this time you do not go to forget of this time the war came to house with you .
you remember the park , rapariga to sing e the war veteran ?
i have something for you there flowers if to obtain to arrive , you will be able to save them .
e remembers to you , charlie
if you speak to somebody on this , one polices , to the woman , any one  they will die , not you charlie , them .
as he said , charlie .
he has rules in this .
he sees the light pole in front , the globe is it is more or less the size of your head .
e remembers to you , if you speak with somebody they will die .
as your family , charlie .
then you the " administration " contactou without authorization .
i made what she had to make .
the first contact in a situation thus , she is its commander .
nolan was the only one in who he could trust this moment .
to notify , to improvise , to use .
basic rules of trainings .
company of samuel and irmos .
maggie johnson please .
moan , mrs. johnson still did not arrive
please it introduces its identification .
it waits please .
national agency of security .
center of communications for satellite .
ol charlie , how you are , my brother ?
it hears , you have that to say me , how was the climate in the coast this ?
nolan !
i am single and .
how he is this of in leaving them ?
what is transferred , my brother ?
already you do not like to travel ?
it hears me with much attention .
this well , i hear you .
they had discovered me .
of that you speak ?
charlie , this is impossible .
nobody can see your archive .
therefore somebody made it .
it has one , perhaps two or three e is professional .
i believe , your word is enough for me .
it is well .
you i have covered , it only says me what i have that to make .
i want that you find the maggie and the children .
they had said that they had them but i want to have the certainty . the old address verifies .
it is well .
i have to my front , all the numbers that necessary , now listening it says me donde you are and sending you two agents before that you put the telephone .
not , now listening me you do not say to nobody .
of that excrement you speak , charlie ?
pods not to make this alone , you want that it has remembered you of rules of the house ?
now , it waits there and i will send you two agents fastest than it will be able .
you do not forget that you are only one civilian .
it only leaves to make me you a report .
not , they had said that they saw somebody to help me , they would kill them .
this means , that nobody can help me .
that is only between you and i.
you and i ?
char
charlie , both we can put us in serious problems , you know ?
on the other hand , my supervisor of area is to arrange an excuse to order me for the " manuseamento of archives " e i do not belong to this .
oh , what he is , without value he does not have glory .
as he said you , i cover you the coasts but , you are without proteco or either , as i can also make to find you .
i still do not know .
necessary that you find curtis also
i have a bad hunch about of this .
charlie , you are there ?
charlie ?
now our bear it starts to run .
pretty woman , you do not go to be problem some .
not me touchs .
you have that to be silenced seno i will make you to be silent .
he stole my telephone !
he stole my telephone !
i have a robbery in the park , one telemvel .
suspected it escaped between the arvores , e goes in the direco this , necessary the policy of los angeles .
attention to all the units of the park , it searchs of one suspicious one , caucasiano , 1, 82 meters , 87 kilos .
robbery of telemvel .
it has care charlie .
ol , i of new am .
charlie , i bound for the school , your children are well , but i did not obtain to find the maggie .
they have it .
oh my god .
you are not worried , i go to order somebody to collect the children .
ok .
it binds to me the donovan to it , it must be in some side of l. a.
you are to play ?
charlie , it is in the black list of the agency .
therefore he is the only one who i can trust .
reason ?
you know what it made in the balcs , it had luck not to be in the list of extermnio of the agency .
not , it only is to pass for difficult times .
alem of this , left makes six months e nobody knows where to find it , also if wanting to find .
i know it , i look it in the coffee of maysie in the center of the city .
good , still well that you know where finding .
we have passed much thing together .
i violated a pile of rules for this someone .
nolan ?
he is well , is well .
already i do not speak of it .
you heard some thing on curtis ?
not until the o moment .
still it did not answer to the telephone .
it hears , charlie .
i have that to say this to you .
i am very nervous , i do not know if i will be able to make this alone .
it leaves to call me for support .
not .
what you have in the satellites ?
therefore , not very , without it joins official authorization .
i do not have real time in video and alone if actualiza each 30 seconds , or more .
therefore it must a spy in some side e somebody with the maggie .
they must have three .
it is truth that you go to make this alone , not ?
you go to play the role of hero in this everything .
charlie , the world is full of heroes but unhappyly they are died .
you really want to finish with the list of " finished " .
nolan you have that to believe me if they suspect that somebody me it is to help , go to kill it .
they want me it me .
perhaps charlie , you are to sobrestimar this man .
i want to say , has so far not been able to make nothing you nor to the children .
not !
this type is good .
only making its game e it only wants me to see to run .
e this is what i go to make .
now , i go to need a weapon .
the donovan says who puts in some place , a hk 91 .
e later can look the spy , but they do not make nothing until they have mine children in a safe place .
he is clearly ?
he is well , you are the head .
well .
charlie ?
he waits .
charlie you are there ?
i believe that he is it to try to locate me , it tracks the telephones of the park and it looks the localization of this call .
it does not have problem .
but listening , i go to need one minute to find it , it keeps it in line .
it is well .
i can see you daqui , charlie .
then , it kills me .
pods not to see me , not ?
pods to be to be seen .
i mention you to it .
i know that your spy can .
it is a penalty that you do not have tomatoes you exactly to kill me .
i can make what i want e when i want ,
i can finish with yours life when to want .
you are not dull , charlie .
you only have until the o put do sun , to find your family .
perhaps " chu chu " number one , helps you .
it waits .
ei .
nolan ?
i am here .
you have something ?
i have the sufficient for a tracing of voice .
well .
now it treats to inquire who is this type .
it gave another place to me !
it mentioned " chu chu " .
i believe that it wanted to say the park of the convoy .
telemvel is to be without battery , necessary of a radio and one it sets .
you are not worried , will be there .
listening , care are there , ok .
you do not have any support .
i do not want that nothing it happens you , you understood ?
it is well .
charlie ?
charlie !
cursed you are , charlie ?
what is to make ?
sir .
he stops .
you he was to speak with somebody .
yes , he was to speak with mine computer charlie .
cursed you are , charlie .
where you are , charlie ?
you see the security guard ?
i assume that in we would congregate them here and in it would lead where was the robbery of telemvel .
this would have to be a case stops a simple guard of patrol , therefore they dress uniforms e we dress fact .
the central office asked for to us that in we congregated here with it .
it must be for here in some side .
of all the forms we will strain the muscles .
high , you do not move yourself .
it puts you of belly for low .
this is not a good ideia .
already you heard me , already it said it puts you of belly for low .
i cannot , now listening me , it is in serious danger .
belly for low .
nick' s
donovan .
please .
she is your mother .
yes !
donovan , is the nolan .
listening , the wife of charlie was abducted and that is a tremendous situation , e does not have any support .
i hear , i know that already he passed time sufficiently , but we know that in it can help them .
what was everything this ?
i notified mrs. demmings , i will take it its lesson inside of a moment .
i ask for excuse for requesting as much identification but it must understand that we must very be careful in these days .
necessary that she has taken me ace children .
therefore , when i was in the school she did not need to be worried for these things .
oh , its sotaque , he is russian ?
not , for nothing .
here it is .
mrs. demmings !
where they are the children ?
lisa and sam ?
i finish to deliver them uncle to its .
to its uncle ?
which uncle ?
where we go , uncle donnie ?
i go to take care of of you per one instants , it is well ?
how well !
they want to go to compliment the maysie ?
yes .
oh excrement .
now all they go to know .
oh charlie !
the policy walks to your search you go to find attention exactly that you do not want .
i lost it . it finds .
they want something to eat ?
it is well .
you have the certainty of that the charlie it said you to make this ?
donnie , that if passes ?
if to say you , will have that to kill you .
then , being thus it is better not to ask .
i go to collect your father , vocs they go to be well here ?
they want big cookies with milk ?
side this of the dam .
vai crossing until the a half .
the wind about of the water approximately 6 we mil/ pontos ahead .
vai , goes .
there it is where you meet .
vai for detrs of the fence .
how me you are to see ?
already i have it another time .
it is in
it found the localizer .
pods not to lose it , understood ?
already it will appear .
not , it knows well this place very , pods not to lose it .
you must make with that it appears in the place , right now .
it could leave badly .
we would not have to try .
i will not come back you to say .
it orders it now .
ol donovan , you are there ?
yes .
where ?
in the top of the park .
well , then i go to facilitate you .
the last position of the spy was in limit of the park .
in the esquina northwest .
i have colon to blink in the thermal radar .
the movement localizer indicates that spy can be in one of the two places ,
the two close to the sniper .
you have the certainty of this ?
yes .
ol , comrade .
you have a cigarette ?
not tobacco .
it is well ?
yes .
this hashmark in your shoulder , is of the first one of infantaria tringulo despert de ferro , not ?
therefore yes , yes , but this was e that is of now .
it has how much walks in the streets ?
despertei here this morning .
good days !
it is well ?
yes , it is well .
he is its friend ?
it is now .
you have a cigarette ?
clearly .
i noticed that you have sotaque .
ah !
swiss .
you know , " clocks cuckoo " .
certain , " clocks cuckoo " .
ol , where obtained this ?
it is turkish tobacco , is not truth ?
yevon exactly wants to kill you the price of your head is very good .
debtor my friend .
kaufer !
never more .
are you , charlie ? slippery man .
he has a change of plans , charlie .
he said you concerning the convoy , but now you will have to be there inside of three minutes , or the flowers are gone .
it waits as .
three minutes .
ei , ei .
cursed you are , return with my motion .
for more how much time we must be here ?
not for very .
pap is well ?
clearly that yes .
pods to count to me ?
yours pap is e well it will be soon here .
366 meters .
winds 2 we .
possibility of collateral damage .
here feretti , the suspected one of the robbery of telemvel left the park .
already it has it , does not go off .
thought donovan well .
he is its ?
yes .
then , because it hid it in relva ?
thus he would be safer . if if not to forget .
you have reason .
debtor , i will remember this for the next one .
already you found it ?
not , nothing still .
this still is back in low , it finds it .
it disappeared . it finds .
ol , you are lost ?
necessary that you show to me the form to leave daqui .
however le " , you have 20 dollars .
this place is enormous .
somebody as you can walk to give returns during hours . , please necessary of your aid .
you really walk with haste , not ?
you go the way of the office ?
please .
i know you , ah ?
you were the type that did not give to me nor ten cents for my music .
therefore now , i give something to you , then we are tied up to .
ol , i sing very well , ok ?
i participated
he forgets .
he waits as .
we two have problems , we are well ?
now , he shows the way to me to leave daqui and already in we separate them .
what has in the box ?
problems .
the women have that to live of something .
the problems of that i speak to you , you not even the pods to imagine .
now , i ask to you one more time , samples me the way to leave daqui ?
please .
i am you to ask for it that you help me .
untied me .
excuse .
for here .
nolan ?
i hear you , donovan .
listening something ?
i believe that already they have the package .
e you that you have ?
charlie had reason , he has one equips complete .
spy and sniper .
charlie thinks that she has something to see with its last work .
wait , i am to receive an information .
i have the matrix of confirmed voice .
he is a called man yevon bodnar , e i am to receive more information .
ol donovan , listening this , bodnar leads a group of counterattack with financial linkings the unions of some crimes in
average east and in the this of europe . , it vende basically mercenary to the best one asked for .
you have a photograph ?
already it goes to appear .
when it goes to be this ?
that is more far that i can take you .
the river of los angeles is for beyond , the auto road is more above ,
e the city is in this direco .
until soon .
it waits as .
plus a favor .
it looks at well this photograph .
it says me if you recognize something .
something as the place where it was taken off .
who is ?
my wife .
she is very pretty .
that it walks to make with one badameco how you ?
already i asked me exactly to it per many years .
this could be in any besieges .
she will be lost it ?
not , they had abducted it .
it looks at , i do not want myself to involve with something thus , ok ?
you are a policy ?
not .
that is something that i have that to decide exactly for me .
you have children ?
yes .
two .
charlie , you are there ?
yes , ahead .
charlie hears , i have , harms the news .
the policy received a call from one man who lead for " canyon road " , e saw the car of tans to fly in pieces .
charlie , i feel very , but you tan is died .
i go for the war , take yours final positions .
charlie ?
where you are ?
i found the cursed one , but i did not obtain to find the sniper .
where caralho you are ?
in some place to the side of the river of los angeles .
that excrement you are to make there ?
they are to guide me , donovan , i i find that if they are to hide close to the river .
this river runs during quilmetros .
they had attracted me until here .
the spy was itself , and i also .
vai .
nolan ?
i am here and i find that i know who is .
who is ?
the name is yevon bodnar and has reason , it is of the last work , of zebistan .
i do not know my brother , i find that if you one escaped .
wait , i go to have recognition of the face inside of seconds .
charlie , bodnar is not a good youngster , is a member of a paramilitary group , that vende its services to the best price , the majority groups of the average east .
but it hears this , was a bad youngster in chechnia because not even the russians wanted to have nothing to see with it .
he seems to have been one part illegal organization here in in the united states , but not it has much of that to speak .
charlie , this type is a great terrorist world wide , well taken care of with it .
he does not have problem .
well , because already let us stow in much small farm and i not i am ready to lose you now .
it does not go to pass .
what has in the thermal radar ?
wait .
already i have it .
it seems that it has much heat beyond .
it prepares you , because this is to set very hot .
your husband seems that still he continues with life , but but that pity , then more will be died .
it is to enter in the park .
probably in the side this .
ol , the photo that you showed to me i know where i am .
where ?
in the old arrest , a little more above of the river .
they had closed it before i being born , nobody came back it to use .
this is a great aid , debtor .
we go , i go to show you .
two different shoot outs .
one day busy .
it does not incase , i do not obtain to imagine .
that type was assassinated with the weapon of it e this died for a aperto for detrs that the neck broke it .
e still has of the park of the convoy .
then you find that all are on .
the park is very small for as much coincidence .
ok , from that it is to run away suspected ours ?
i do not know , but we go to have of stopping quickly .
what way you find that it chose ?
the mountains to our return , or it was under the river .
it has that to be for the river .
now yes , you are to think sherlock .
i wait that he is comfortable .
vai for the hell .
i live there .
e now , also you and the charlie .
he will never be able to leave daqui .
in the truth , never i could understand the attitude that the americans have .
the valentia , or perhaps dullness when they are against the wall e without place for where to go , because they do not give up ?
because we are correctos .
ah !
but clearly , the right the holy ghost of america to say to world as they must live .
because vocs they have 200 cereals for small lunch in the supermarket , they think that we need this ?
it hears me .
already in them they cannot continue to ignore .
its husband soon will be here prontinho to save , as in all the films of hollywood , but this goes to finish a little different . it will not save it nor you it .
vocs will lose .
of this time , the bad ones go to earn .
it is exactly up there .
donovan ?
yes .
you know the old arrest that it is to the side of the river .
yes , i will go to give a sight of eyes .
i go to enter .
it protects the coasts .
nolan ?
charlie , pods to see the arrest ?
not , and you do not have it swims in the thermal radar ?
i am in this .
one sees that the arrest has residents .
but since that they had closed it it can be any one , beggars , vagabonds
some movement ?
three " potential targets " .
charlie , you think that maggie can be there ?
i find that my " enemy " it wants that it goes to inquire .
because they had taken it ?
they want me it me .
you go to kill this type , ah ?
what it is felt when kills somebody ?
i never thought about this .
with this classroom of weapon , almost that you could see them in the eyes .
some times .
your children know that he is what you make ?
the bible says that if it does not have to kill .
some times god use the blackout it stops in giving more light to them .
both we have worlds very bad , you do not find ?
you must go .
not even i know your name .
charlie . my name is sunny .
you see what i want you to say ? care takes , charlie .
you also .
nolan ?
i am here .
already you found them ?
already i am in this for you , donovan .
listening , i have others two figures e i do not have ideia of who could be .
wait , one of them is to move it e the other is in the same place , more or less to ones 45 meters to your front .
understood .
nolan , i am the west , what you visualize ?
i have three figures in the interior of arrest in the south side , nobody is to the return of them .
ok , listening .
one is to move and the others two are quiet .
charlie hears , only has a chance e i do not want to give you the wrong one .
donovan , already you have the spy ?
yes .
i see the bear , and comes to here .
where ?
one died .
good work .
it repeats , where you are ?
cursed you are .
yes sir .
i arrive in five minutes .
we have a report of a caucasiano man close to the river of los angeles , taking one it sets of great transport .
one sets of great transport ?
it thinks that he is our man .
i do not know , we go .
where we go ?
if who is to run next to the river he is suspected ours , what i believe that is , and if it follows the same direco ,
i find that we will reach it in the old arrest lincoln .
nolan ?
charlie , i only can hear you .
where direco is ? a little for the right moves you .
ok , already i obtain you to see .
the more high you go , better i will be able to see you , e when you will be to the level of the others i will say you and there it is where they are .
it is well , now is here with me nolan .
it keeps an eye in my coasts .
according to floor .
ok charlie , has two figures a little more visible than you , probably because you are two or three levels below .
it continues to move you thus and i will be able to see you better .
understood .
to your left , charlie .
brave , you are in the same level .
it has cells in all sides e a great open corridor .
charlie to your left , the 18 meters .
you are almost to arrive .
it moves you .
one deceased , but still they have the maggie .
charlie , i have two figures above of you e is moved fast ,
i believe that it is a higher level .
it moves you .
it continues to walk .
charlie , is above of you .
he is here ?
yes , we go .
it looks at charlie in front .
they are three figures , two of them are to your front .
it has that to be the maggie .
it disconnect .
moan sir , i cannot make this .
we have a situation of life or death there it are with one of ours .
charlie snow is not one of ours .
he abandoned the agency , we do not have no obligation .
but sir , technical still he belongs to the agency , e this makes with that let us have obligation with it .
you leave it in this way and you will leave to go it but with a warning , doutra form you are of you are also .
this well .
then i am of it are also .
but not before finishing this work .
charlie snow is there without linking , she does not have nothing and they have its wife .
not even in she can ask for aid to them .
still thus i have that it to supply to everything daqui , so that it and its wife leave livings creature of this , she is exactamente what i go to make .
please , sir , for love of god , not he sees that this man needs our aid .
charlie has that to decide its problems for its proper account .
it took this decision when he abandoned the agency .
then respectfully i make petition of access to its superior , as said the protocol of the norms of the agency .
you want to pass on my head .
yes , sir .
e immediately , gentleman .
it frees .
charlie !
quiet .
wide the weapon .
i belong to the units special e has my wife as hostage ,
i do not have time for this .
wide the weapon or detonation .
wide it already .
they have my wife .
it puts the weapon in the soil , we do not want that it has left wounded , shoots it already .
then you go to have that to go off .
asking for support in the old arrest , several suspected deceased , i request helicopter .
quiet , leaves it to go and puts your weapon in soil , you do not have for where to go .
still not charlie , we have joins debt to liquidate .
you and i.
leaves to go it e i will leave to live you .
you think that this is what it worries me .
the only way to live this battle is to finish it in bags for corpses .
it is well .
it leaves it to go , does not have nothing to see with everything this .
you want that she leaves it to go ?
he shoots your weapon and i leave to go it .
this never will be gone to pass .
already everything was finished .
it leaves it to go and it puts your weapon .
far it already .
not taste very of this ideia .
you took off me something that i loved , e now i go to take off you something that you love .
the decision is yours .
this is your last chance .
of this time not , charlie .
policy , releases the weapon .
you are well ?
yes .
i am well .
debtor charlie .
i love you .
it will be well .
will lead some time , and with you ? always , since that my family is well .
pap .
they go to see mam .
debtor .
debtor nolan .
fulfilled mission .
my brother does not have problem , is contented that you and the maggie they are the saved one .
we see ourselves for there .
one month later ,
charlie snow was removed honorariamente of i exercise it of the united states .
now it teaches in one school in los angeles , e teaches its children to play soccer .
legends for sircharles
