and his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast them to the earth : and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered , for to devour her child as soon as it was born .
revelation chapter 12 : 4
just like in the forecast data .
excuse me .
i hope the anesthesia did no harm to her .
sir , deunan knute is secured !
such a beauty ...
8 hours 12 minutes , she slept so long .
this legendary soldier is so cute even when she' s asleep .
about what happened to your body ?
she will be surprised !
when we get to the utopia .
utopia , eh ...
did we get the landing permit from olympus a5 ?
don' t get too close before id is confirmed or the multi legged cannon will fire at us .
here is olympus a5 .
lading permit confirmed .
eswat109 landing .
briareos
i' il take a look up ahead .
i will go with you .
you stay here .
don' t worry .
i' il be back soon .
briareos ...
such a detailed inspection this time .
according to the order from legislative institute .
still sleeping ... perhaps wrong dosage of anesthesia ?
don' t move or i' il break your neck !
deunan knute , second team captain , stand down !
briareos
i can' t believe it .
can' t blame you .
but this is the truth ...
so after such a large scale world war , there is no winner ?
yes .
after that , the previous administration took over .
in other word , olympus is now controlling this world .
that means i blindly kept fighting for months with no cause ?
that' s how war is , isn' t it ?
but it' s different here .
olympus is the ideal government that mankind has search for ages .
why brought me here ?
because you are an elite soldier .
your name on the top of eswat' s human enhancement list .
my mission is to bring people on the list from outside world to olympus .
eswat ?
i know you must have lots of questions .
but , please take a good rest tonight .
we will continue tomorrow .
i will show you around the city .
i' m sure deunan you will fall in love with our utopia .
here is the bedroom .
haven' t slept on a soft bed for a long time , haven' t you ?
i' il pick you up at 10 am tomorrow .
you are hitomi , right ?
yeah .
haven' t we meet before ?
i don' t think so .
good night .
when ...
in the battle of north africa ,
i lost my body .
it' s been over one year .
this is carl' s ...
it' s what your father left behind .
don' t let them get it .
call me if you have trouble .
briareos
do you know those who attacked me ?
no .
so sad .
athena you arranged that attack , didn' t you ?
it' s impossible for the mercenaries to confront with eswat .
did you forget the mission of bioriod ?
if the military knows ,
general uranus will be pleased .
we won' t be able to control them by ourselves .
gaia might have reached its limit .
athena , we don' t have much time left .
nike
they' ve found out .
i' m so sorry .
nike
we need our man inside eswat .
i' il prepare right now .
but the worst is ,
we didn' t find that thing .
then
it' s not yet the time to use the last resort .
but the fire has to be put out before it grows .
secure deunan knute by all means !
yes sir !
human is such a strange creature that will fall into its own traps .
never thought captain hades will be here personally .
imagine how eswat is chasing after the fake information ...
preparation is 98 % finished .
wonderful ...
the problem of special part on the leg was also solved .
general uranus will be pleased .
now , bioriod won' t be able to do as they wishes .
we should not be protecting wolves . instead we should protect the sheep like human , shouldn' t we ?
indeed that' s the principle for our first generation bioriod .
however some wolves are under sheep' s skins .
no matter if it' s a wolf or a sheep , there should not be any sacrifices .
so sad .
we' ve already known the answer to this .
even then , we have to debate with gaia like this .
then let' s continue to debate with gaia .
deunan
briareos
morning , deunan .
it fits well .
come on , let' s go .
your entry permit was approved this morning .
so deunan you are offically a member of our olympus .
beautiful city , isn' t it ?
comparing with where i was yesterday , it' s like a dream .
from today on , this is the reality .
everyone seems happy .
because in this city 50 % population are bioriod .
bioriod ?
man made human .
clones ?
no , not simple clones , but man made human with carefully selected human gene .
does it mean that the city is controlled by clones ?
it' s not polite to say " clone " .
i am a bioriod myself .
and , although being elite ,
bioriod doesn' t control human .
bioriod aims to coexists with human peacefully . and become an integral part of human to human relations .
half of them are bioriod ...
this car is sort of strange .
the experimental ultravibrate gravity system is installed on this car .
ultravibrate gravity ?
yes , like hovering .
it' s said the driver would have a longer life .
so the ultravibrate gravity control technology is finished .
but , you control the car by that steering wheel ?
in this city , the use of automation technology has reached such level , this wheel is a symbol of the " for the people " idea .
simple theory , complicated structure , makes human more human .
what' s that all about ?
city planners used to say that .
that is the symbolic building .
tarutarus and tartarus .
inside there , an enormous i. n. structure that controls olympus .
i. n. ?
means " intellectual network " .
commonly called gaia .
gaia grows with the network and monitors all of olympus .
especially we bioriod .
why ?
human has emotions .
they argue and start wars .
bioriod is restrained on emotions .
they don' t hate others so there won' t be any fighting .
on the top of tarutarus , there is a perfect defense system protecting the " d tank " virus storage system
it is said that if the virus is spread out , all bioriod will die .
it' s the product of human defense instinct .
but it' s a insult to bioriod .
you mean human is more dangerous .
so the balance between human and boiriod is more important .
gaia monitors the effect of the bioriod with human .
but the one being monitored are still human being .
you spoke like general uranus .
who is general uranus ?
general commander of olympus military .
an extremist that hates bioriod .
an being that' s unfit in utopia .
bioriod controls olympus .
premier athena is a bioriod too .
athena ?
you know her ?
probably not .
premier is just like the president .
however the military is controlled by human .
scary , right ?
recently the eswat under athena' s control is growing bigger .
the relations with military has gone from bad to worse .
but all decisions of olympus are controlled by gaia .
something wrong ?
we' ve got company .
hitomi , are you okay ?
sure .
but they are ...
they sure know what to do .
so i am the target .
no question about it .
such is the reality .
briareos .
cannot unseal the apple seed .
how are you doing , grandpas ?
hitomi , are you alright ?
are you hurt ?
i am okay .
and i bring you the long awaited deunan knute .
ahh , the legendary beauty !
goddess of fighting .
you have the same eyes like carl .
you know my father ?
not only that ,
most bioriod in olympus have inherited part of carl knute' s gene .
that means hitomi is your sister .
we heard you met some unpleasant things .
recently , it' s very complicated to control people from outside .
we are worried that the balance will be broken .
first let' s introduce gaia to you .
enemies of the general ...
the legislative institute and administrative institute began to confront each other over the issues of bioriod population increasing , etc .
athena is really targeting carl' s daughter ?
absolutely .
all the preparation is done .
degree of the information source ?
it' s level 5 .
general , please make a decision !
human cannot be the tool of souls any more .
this is gaia .
gaia lets the network grow and controls olympus .
gaia speaks with the seven elders and the conclusion becomes the consciousness of olympus .
gaia is the combine product of many scientists ' intelligence and consciousness .
however a machine is a machine .
it' s absolute stable , a reliable tool .
but it has no emotions and no feelings .
only if combine with seven elder' s feelings
gaia could think more like a human .
but recently you have very different opinions with gaia .
our work is to argue with gaia .
the conclusion of the debate can lead olympus to the correct direction for future development .
deunan , you were still in battlefield yesterday , right ?
what did you fight for ?
well ...
human being will not stop fighting as long as there are emotions and desires .
that' s why we built olympus .
the last hope for human being is the coexistence of human and bioriod .
gaia continously monitors this balance .
bioriod is totally different from human .
without the reproductive ability , they cannot have children .
no sex .
no love , no desire , and therefore no hatred .
however if the life prolonging procedure is not performed regularly , they will get old really fast and die .
we wanted to make bioriod different from human , so we supressed their reproductive ability , and changed their life cycle .
hitomi , aren' t you late for the life prolonging procedure ?
no problem , i will have it done there soon .
hopefully , someday bioroids don' t have to go through such troublesome procedure .
kudo , all your team members are dead .
you are still too young , sorry for that .
started with only one knife , she killed 16 men in ten minutes .
you brought in a really good newcomer !
you bloat too much .
your team members might save your life some day .
you shouldn' t say those words to them .
so long haven' t seen you , can' t you say something else ?
something nicer ?
such as " how have you been in two years ?
or " nice to meet you again " .
someone has an interest on you .
i know .
but why would any one be interested in me , and who are these people ?
i don' t know .
what is " apple seed " ?
i don' t know .
i don' t want hear such mechanical answer .
sorry .
right now , my mission is to protect you .
mission ...
tomorrow we meet at 9 .
so ... you are the legendary fighter deunan knute .
it' s said that you died during the great war .
your story at the war of north africa became a legend .
may i sit here ?
sure .
deunan , how about your father carl knute ?
he died before the great war .
sorry to hear that .
your mother ?
i cannot remember anything about her .
my father didn' t tell my anything either .
you and briareos were lovers , right ?
that' s when he was still human .
so the body is more important for love .
that' s not what i mean .
but to men , the body is a sex symbol none the less .
well ...
what is it like to be in love ?
ahh ...
you know bioriod' s emotions are restrained .
so we don' t know what love feels like .
i can learn about it from the readings ...
but i never experienced personally .
so i become more and more curious .
on this point , i really envy human beings .
people in love , what are they like ?
the feeling of love someone .
you bastard !
you are only a bioriod !
how dare you be in front of human !
olympus military , annoying guys .
always make a scene .
synchro test finished , no problem found .
only thing left is to adjust the safety belt .
i want to confirm one more time before that .
the reason for the reduction of shock absorbing is ...
i said that already .
dynamic structure can absorb shock .
but the cartilage has many structures , joints , bearings and depressor mechanism are self restrained , they will dislocate under too much stress .
yoshitsune , don' t worry .
this is deunan kunte .
but usually no woman can operate a land mate .
ok , let me try .
help me adjust the safety belt .
deunan , yoshitsune is the best mechanics in olympus .
only limited to land mate though .
now you are studying the hecatonchires structure , right ?
next time let me see the inner structure please .
forget it , i am blushing .
all secured ?
hmmm , no problem .
ok , this is the start switch .
first you need to practice , slowly .
right .
what' s happening ?
the emergency launch alarm .
unidentified land mates invaded gaia research center !
eswat launch immediately !
stop wasting time , let' s move !
ok like this is fine .
i' m moving out .
like that ? !
deunan
stop !
the are coming ...
targeting is ...
deunan
hold on , don' t come here !
drop the weapon !
briareos
sorry
such foolish actions .
the third generation bioriod are all destroyed .
the dna system for life prolonging procedures are all destroyed as well .
they came in from the underground elevator shaft .
seven levels of security system are broken through in one shot .
no sign of insurgents from outside of olympus .
we don' t know who owns those land mates .
this is too much !
looks like it is fate that we have to take on the burden of today' s human reality .
no other choice .
from now on , block all surrounding of tarutarus and tartarus .
no one is permitted to access the d tank on the top .
yes .
emergency meeting right now !
