a long time ago in a galaxy far , far away ...
star wars eplsode ii
attack of the clones
there is unrest in the galactic senate .
several hundred solar systems , under the
leadership of the rebel leader , count
dooku , have declared their intentions to secede from the republic .
this separatist movement has made it difficult for the limited number of jedi
knights to maintain peace and order in the galaxy .
senator amidala , the former queen of naboo , is returning to the galactic senate to vote on the critical issue of creating an army of the republic to assist the overwhelmed jedi ...
we made it .
i guess i was wrong , there was no danger at all .
corde ... ...
i' m sorry , m' lady ...
i' m ... not sure i ...
no ! ...
no ! ...
no ! ...
i should not have come back .
m' lady , you are still in danger .
you did your duty and corde did hers .
now come .
m' lady , please !
order !
we shall have order !
the motion for the republic to commission an army takes precedent , and that is what we will vote on at this time .
... my esteemed colleagues , excuse me ...
i have just received some tragic and disturbing news .
senator
amidala of the naboo system ...
has been assassinated !
this grievous blow is especially personal to me .
before i became
chancellor , i served amidala when she was queen .
she was a great
leader who fought for justice , not only in this honourable assembly , but also on her home planet .
she was so loved she could have been elected queen for life .
she believed in public service , and she fervently believed in democracy .
her death is a great loss to us all .
we will all mourn her as a relentless champion of freedom ... and as a dear friend .
how many more senators will die before this civil strife ends !
i believe we must confront these rebels now , and they need an army to do it .
why weren' t the jedi able to stop this assassination ?
we are no longer safe , under their protection .
the republic needs more security now !
before it comes to war .
senator , negotiations are continuing with the separatists .
peace is our objective here , not war .
my noble colleagues , i concur with the supreme chancellor .
at all costs , we do not want war !
it is with great surprise and joy the chair recognizes the
senator from naboo , padme amidala .
less than an hour ago , an assassination attempt was made against my life .
one of my bodyguards and six others were ruthlessly and senselessly murdered .
i was the target but , more importantly , i believe this security measure before us was the target .
i have led the opposition to build an army ... but there is someone in this body that will stop at nothing to assure it' s passage ...
i warn you , if you vote to create this army , war will follow .
i have experienced the misery of war " first hand ; i do not wish to do it " again .
wake up , senators ... you must wake up !
if you offer the separatists violence , they can only show them violence in return !
many will lose their lives .
all will lose their freedom .
this decision could very well destroy the very foundation of our great republic .
i pray you do not let fear push you into a disastrous decision .
vote down this security measure , which is nothing less than a declaration of war !
does anyone here want that ?
i cannot believe they do .
my motion to defer the vote must be dealt with first .
that is the rule of law .
due to the lateness of the hour and the seriousness of this motion , we will take up these matters tomorrow .
until then , the senate stands adjourned .
i don' t know how much longer i can hold off the vote , my friends .
more and more star systems are joining the separatists .
if they do break away
no !
i will not let that happen !
but if they do , you must realize there aren' t enough jedi to protect the republic .
we are keepers of the peace , not soldiers .
master yoda , do you think it will really come to war ?
worse than war , i fear ...
much worse .
what ?
what do you sense , master ?
impossible to see ...
the dark side clouds everything .
but this i am sure of ... do their duty the jedi will .
the loyalist committee has arrived , my lord .
send them in .
with you the force is strong ... young senator .
to see you alive brings warm feeling to my heart .
thank you , master yoda .
do you have any idea who was behind the attack ?
our intelligence points to disgruntled spice miners , on the moons of naboo .
i don' t wish to disagree but i think that count dooku was behind it .
you know , m' lady , count dooku was once a jedi .
he wouldn' t assassinate anyone , it is not in his character .
he is a political idealist , not a murderer .
in dark times nothing is what it appears to be , but the fact remains
senator , in grave danger you are .
count dooku has always avoided any kind of conflict .
it appears he has no desire to start a war .
why would he kill you ?
to what end ?
i don' t know , but everything in my being tells me he was behind it ...
master jedi , may i suggest that the senator be placed under the protection of your graces .
do you think that is a wise use of manpower during these stressful times ?
chancellor , if i may comment , i do not believe the ... " ... " situation is that serious .
no , but i do , senator .
chancellor , please !
i don' t want any more guards !
i realize all too well that additional security might be disruptive for you , but perhaps someone you are familiar with ... an old friend like ...
master
kenobi ...
that' s possible .
he has just returned from a border dispute on ansion .
you must remember him , m' lady ... he watched over you during the blockade conflict .
this is not necessary , chancellor .
do it for me , m' lady , please .
i will rest easier .
we had a big scare today .
the thought of losing you is unbearable .
i will have obi wan report to you immediately , m' lady .
too little about yourself you worry ,
senator , and too much about politics .
be mindful of your danger , padme .
accept our help .
annie ?
noooooooo !
little bitty annie ?
annie !
annie !
yiyiyiyiyiyiiii !
excuse me , master obi wan .
i completely forgot myself for a moment there .
it' s a great pleasure to see you again , milady .
it has been far too long , master
kenobi .
ani ?
my goodness , you' ve grown !
so have you ... grown more beautfiul ,
i mean ... and much shorter ... for a
senator , i mean .
we will find out who is trying to kill you padme .
i promise you .
i' il have an officer on every
floor and i' il be at the command
center downstairs .
mesa busten wit happiness seein
yousa again , annie .
deesa bad times , bombad times .
she didn' t even recognize me ,
jar jar .
i thought about her every single day since we parted .
and she' s forgotten about me completely .
shesa happy .
happier den mesa see en her in long time .
anakin , you' re focusing on the
negative again .
be mindful of your thoughts .
she was glad to see us .
now lets check the security here .
yes , my master .
the security systems are working
and captain typho has more than enough men downstairs .
no assassin will try that way .
any activity up here ?
quiet as a tomb .
i don' t like just waiting here for something to happen .
you' re using her as bait ?
it was her idea ...
no harm will come to her .
i can sense everything going on in that room .
trust me .
it' s too risky ... and your senses aren' t that attuned , young apprentice .
and yours are ?
possibly .
time will tell then , who' s more in touch with the force .
she covered the camera .
i don' t
think she likes me watching her .
you look tired .
i don' t sleep well , anymore .
because of your mother ?
i don' t know why i keep dreaming
about her now .
i haven' t seen her since i was little .
i' m not sure what it means ...
but dreams pass in time .
i' d rather dream of padme .
just
being around her again is ... intoxicating .
mind your thoughts , anakin , they
betray you .
remember you' ve made a commitment to the jedi order ... a commitment not easily broken ... and don' t forget she' s a politician .
they are not to be trusted .
she' s not like the others in the
senate , master .
it' s been my experience that
senators are only focused on pleasing their corporations that fund their campaigns , my young
padawan ... and they are more then willing to forget the niceties of democracy to get those funds .
not another lecture , master .
at least not on the economics of politics .
it' s too early in the morning ... and besides , you' re generalizing .
the
chancellor doesn' t appear to be corrupt .
palpatine' s a politician , i' ve observed that he is very clever at following the passions and prejudices of the senators .
i think he is a good man .
my instincts are very positive about ...
stay here !
maybe i should be teaching you a few things .
follow that speeder .
he went that way .
this is a shortcut ...
i think .
anakin !
how many times how i told you ... ... to stay away from power couplings .
i' m sorry ...
i forgot that you hate flying , master .
well you' ve lost him .
hold on a second .
anakin !
she went into that club , master .
patience .
here .
next time try not to lose it .
sorry , master .
a jedi' s saber is his most precious possession .
yes , master .
he must keep it with him at all times .
i know , master .
this weapon is your life !
i' ve heard this lesson before .
but , you haven' t learned anything ,
anakin .
i try , master .
why do i think you are going to be the death of me ?
don' t say that master ...
you' re the closest thing i have to a father ...
i love you and i do not want to cause you pain .
then why don' t you listen to me ?
i will .
i' il do better , i promise .
can you see him ?
i believe that ' he ' is actually a ' she ' .
be extra careful .
check it out .
where are you going ?
to get a drink .
you want some death sticks ?
you want some death sticks ?
you don' t want to sell me death sticks .
i don' t want to sell you death sticks .
you should rethink your life .
go about your business ...
toxic dart ...
why couldn' t we see this attack on the senator ?
masking the future is this disturbance in the force .
it' s been ten years , and the sith
still have not shown themselves .
do you think they are behind this ?
out there , they are .
a certainty that is .
do you think obi wan' s apprentice will be able to bring balance to the force ?
only if he chooses to follow his destiny .
dangerous and mysterious this puzzle is .
escort the senator back to naboo .
she will be safer there .
may the force be with you .
representative binks .
i know i can count on you .
yousa betchen mesa bottums .
what ? !
oh , pardon ay , senator .
i am honoured to accept this heavy burden .
i take on this responsibility with deep humility tinged with and overwhelming pride .
it is not every day that i am called upon to ...
you' re a good friend , jar jar .
i don' t wish to hold you up .
i' m sure you have a great deal to do .
of course , m' lady .
i do not like this idea of hiding .
don' t worry .
now that the council has ordered an investigation , it won' t take master obi wan long to find that bounty hunter .
i have worked for nearly a year to defeat the military creation
act and now i have to leave at a crucial time when its fate is to be decided in the senate .
sometimes we have to let go of our pride and do what is requested of us .
pride ? ! ?
you believe you have a firm grip on politics but you are way too young to understand the situation .
i suggest you reserve your opinions for some other time .
i was only trying to ...
annie , no !
please don' t call me that .
what ?
annie ...
i' ve always called you that .
it is your name , isn' t it ?
it' s anakin .
when you say annie it' s like i' m still a little boy and i' m not .
i' m sorry , anakin .
it' s impossible to deny you' ve ... ... that you' ve grown up .
master obi wan manages not to see it ...
mentors have a way of seeing more of our faults than we would like .
it' s the only way we grow .
obi wan is a great mentor .
as wise as master yoda and as powerful as
master windu .
i am truly thankful to be his apprentice .
only ... ... although i' m a padawan learner , in some ways ... a lot of ways ...
i' m ahead of him .
i' m ready for the trials .
i know
i am !
he knows it too .
he believes
i' m too unpredictable for the trials but i' m beginning to doubt him .
i see other jedi , the same age as me , going through the trials and making it as jedi knights .
i know i started my training late but he won' t let me move on .
that must be frustrating .
it' s worse ... he' s overly critical .
he never listens !
he just doesn' t understand !
i do not believe it is fair that obi wan is holding me back .
i' m sorry ...
you sounded exactly
like that little boy i once knew , when he didn' t get his way .
i' m not whining !
i' m not .
i didn' t say it to hurt you .
i know ...
anakin , don' t try to grow up too fast .
i am grown up .
you said it yourself .
please don' t look at me like that .
why not ?
because i can see what you' re thinking .
ahh ... so , you have jedi powers too ?
it makes me feel uncomfortable .
sorry , m' lady .
i think at one point you' il become the greatest of the jedi .
be careful , m' lady .
thank you , captain .
take good care of dorme .
he' il be safe with me .
the threat is now on you and dorme .
you' il be fine .
it' s not me , m' lady .
i worry
about you .
what if they realize
i' m not you ?
then my jedi protector will have to prove how grown up he is .
anakin , you stay put on naboo .
do not attract any attention to yourself or the senator .
do absolutely nothing without checking in with me or the council .
yes , master .
i will get to the bottom of this plot quickly , m' lady .
you' il be back here in no time .
i will be most grateful for your speed , master jedi .
time to go .
i know .
may the force be with you .
may the force be with you , master .
suddenly , i' m afraid ...
i' m kinda scared too .
this is my first assignment on my own .
there' s nothing to worry about ... we have artoo with us .
i hope he doesn' t try anything foolish .
i' d be more concerned about her doing something , than him .
do you need assistance ?
i' m looking for dexter .
waddya want him for ?
dexter' s not in trouble .
this visit is of a personal nature .
someone to see ya , honey ...
i think he' s a jedi .
obi wan !
hey dex .
take a seat !
be right with ya !
thank you .
it' s a toxic dart .
i need to know where it came from and who made it .
what you have here is a kaminoan
kyberdart .
dexter tells him that it only comes from one place ... the water planet called kamino .
dexter gives obi wan the rough co ordinates of the planet , because kamino is outslde the republic , even further than tatooine .
... just south of the rishi maze .
this is a concern for obi wan because the droid should have recognised the dart as having come from kamino .
dexter reveals that the kaminoans are also very big into cloning .
they' re cloners .
damned good ones , too .
cloners ?
are they friendly ?
even in my adventures since i haven' t seen a more beautiful place .
everything is different now ...
time may have have distorted the history of your memory .
it must be difficult having sworn your life to the jedi , not being able to do the things you like .
or be with the people that i love ?
are you allowed to love ?
i thought that was forbidden for a jedi .
attachment and possession is forbidden , not compassion .
i have dreams ... scary dreams .
the armies of commerce !
why has nothing been done in the senate to restrain them ?
what is your suggestion , master jedi ?
something is wrong here ... what is going on ?
i never understood why he quit .
only twenty jedi have ever left the order .
the lost twenty ...
and dooku was the most recent and the most painful .
no one likes to talk about it .
his leaving was of great loss to the order .
don' t think ... feel ... be as one with the force .
help you , it will .
the most precious weapon a jedi' s
lightsaber is .
how long have these attempts been going on ?
i don' t want anything to happen to my daughter .
neither do i.
be wary , the disturbance in the force is growing stronger .
i' m concerned for my padawan .
he is not ready to be on his own .
he has exceptional skills .
the council is confident in its decision , obi wan .
if the prophecy is true , he will be the one to bring balance to the force .
but he still has much to learn .
his skills have made him , well , arrogant .
i realise now what you and master yoda knew from the beginning ... the boy was too old to start the training , and ...
there' s something else ?
master , he should not be given this assignment .
i' m afraid anakin won' t be able to protect the senator .
why ?
he has a ... an emotional connection with her .
it has been there since he was boy .
now he is confused , distracted .
obi wan , you must have faith that he will take the right path .
has master yoda gained any insight into whether or not this war will come about ?
probing the dark side is a dangerous process .
he could be in seclusion for days ...
may the force be with you .
it wouldn' t have to be that way ... we could keep it a secret .
then we' d be living a lie one we couldn' t keep up even if we wanted to .
my sister saw it .
so did my mother .
i couldn' t do that .
could you , anakin ?
could you live like that ?
... no , you' re right .
it would destroy us .
welcome to tipoca city , master jedi .
everything is ready .
the prime
minister expects you .
i' m expected ?
of course !
he is anxious to see you .
after all these years , we were beginning to think you weren' t coming .
now please , this way !
i used to think if you looked too deeply into glass , you would lose yourself .
i think it' s true ...
i shouldn' t have done that .
i' m sorry .
when i' m around you , my mind is no longer my own .
it' s the situation ... the stress ... ... the view .
i am not going to give into this .
i' m not going to throw my life away .
i have more important things to do than fall in love .
please tell your master sido dyas that we have every confidence his order will be met on time and in full .
he is well , i hope .
who commissioned this cloning activity ?
it was master sido dyas , head of the
jedi council .
i' m sorry ?
master ?
that is ... good news .
i don' t know ...
sure you do ... you just don' t want to tell me .
are you going to use one of your
jedi mind tricks on me ?
they only work on the weak minded .
you are anything but weak minded .
all right ... his name was palo .
i was twelve .
we were both in the
legislative youth program .
he was a few years older then i ... very cute ... dark curly hair ... dreamy eyes .
all right , i get the picture ... whatever happened to him ?
i went to become a queen .
he went to become an artist .
maybe he was the smart one .
you' re making fun of me .
mm , no , no .
i' d be much too frightened to tease a senator .
you' re so bad !
i have never heard of the jedi called sido dyas , have you , master ?
no .
whoever placed that order was no jedi , i can assure you .
who he is working for ... discover that you must .
i will , master , and i will also find out more about this clone army .
may the force ...
a clone army !
ordered by someone in the senate perhaps ...
someone' s out to start a war .
inform the chancellor of this , we must .
who do you think this impostor , sido
dyas , could be ?
no ... no ... no ... mom ! ... don' t , no , don' t !
don' t go .
i don' t want to disturb you .
your presence is soothing .
boba , is your father here ?
may we see him ?
sure .
dad !
taun we' s here !
welcome back , jango .
was your trip productive ?
fairly .
this is jedi master , obi wan kenobi .
he' s come to check on our progress .
that right ?
your clones are very impressive .
you must be very proud .
i' m just a simple man , trying to make my way in the universe , master jedi .
aren' t we all ?
i was hired by a man called darth
tyrannus on the bogden moon .
pack your gears , we' re leaving .
boba , let' s go !
dad look !
smart move .
i' m a jedi .
a jedi ?
whaddayaknow ?
i' ve come to see my mother .
oh dear , i' m so terribly sorry
master anakin .
i think we' d better go inside .
on naboo ...
what' s it like ?
cliegg lars .
shmi is my wife ...
come , we have a lot to talk about .
it was just before dawn ... they came out of nowhere .
those tuskens walk like men , but they are vicious , mindless monsters .
anakln !
stop !
take my speeder .
i' il trust you' il watch over her , owen .
starships from the trade federation and the commerce guilds are taking deliveries of battle droids from the foundries of the planet .
that' s outrageous !
the treaty forbids the trade federation from building up an army .
what are they doing ?
the droid foundry seems to be working at full capacity .
i' m going down to investigate .
i will bring jango
fett back home for interrogation .
those geonosian foundries are part of the techno union .
we will call in their representatives and ask them a few very pointed questions .
one more thing .
jango mentioned he was recruited by someone named
darth tyranus .
do you have any idea who that may be ?
with the forename darth , a sith he must be .
our missing apprentice .
they are playing their hand at last .
do you believe he could be the mysterious sido dyas , who made the deal for the clone army ?
perhaps too many pieces are missing from this puzzle , there are .
be careful .
the investigation is becoming less than routine .
do you need help ?
let me see if i can figure out what' s going on first .
the commerce guilds are preparing for war ... there can be no doubt of that .
count dooku must have made a treaty with them .
we must stop them soon before they' re fully ready .
the debate is over , we need that clone army now !
the debate is not over .
the
senate will never be able to approve the use of that army before the seperatists attack .
this is a crisis !
if the senate votes the chancellor emergency powers , he could approve the use of the army in a minute .
please , please , i don' t wish to have emergency powers .
i believe it to be too extreme a solution .
it' s akin to a dictatorship .
we must rely on the jedi .
master yoda , how many are available to go to
geonosis ?
two hundred ... less or more .
with all due respect , two hundred will be no match for hundreds of thousands of battle droids .
patience .
we must wait for
obi wan to report back .
we don' t know that count dooku has made a treaty with the
corporate alliance , it' s speculation .
we must prepare for the worst .
i' m going to propose a motion granting emergency powers to the chancellor at the next session .
we must not wait !
out of the question , senator !
you and i are too closely aligned .
the issue will become partisan and debates will begin .
the proposal must come from a neutral source .
if only senator amidala were here .
supreme chancellor ... my august colleagues , i would be proud to propose the motion in question .
this is a grave situation , and
i' m sure senator amidala , and the queen of naboo would agree .
thank you , representative binks .
if called upon , i will serve .
but it will be the saddest day of my life .
there !
um , how do i look ?
great !
you look perfect !
perfect ?
oh , miss padme , i' m so happy .
oh , pardon me .
thank you .
i always knew you' d come back .
if i hadn' t gone away , none of this would have happened .
we' d be happy .
but you' d still be slaves .
but at least she' d still be alive and we' d be happy .
it' s all obi wan' s fault !
he' s holding me back !
you' re not all powerful , ani .
well , i should be !
someday i will be the most powerful jedi ever .
anakin , what' s wrong ?
i ... i killed them .
i killed them all .
they' re dead , every single one of them ...
what are you talking about ?
not just the men ... the women and children too .
they' re like animals , and i slaughtered them like animals .
i hate them !
war is inevitable ...
alliance have pledged their armies to count dooku and are forming an ...
wait ! ... ah ... attack ...
i don' t ... make it ... aaaggghhh !
i' m going after him !
i thought the first thing he said was to retransmit his message to
coruscant .
... he' s like my father , but you heard
master windu .
he gave me strict orders to stay here .
well , padme .
i think he should be yours from now on ...
i know that is what my mom would want .
senators ...
dellow fellogates ...
who can deny these are exceptional times ?
exceptional times demand exceptional measures !
exceptional measures demand exceptional men !
this is a crisis !
we must vote emergency powers to the supreme
chancellor .
my first act would be to raise a grand army to protect our sovereignty from the seperatists .
sometimes we must break the law in order to act in its best interest .
why are you here ?
i am searching for jango fett .
he is not here .
i assure you he is .
i' m not letting you go out there .
it' s too dangerous .
what ? ! ?
it' s my job to protect you and it' s too dangerous .
you' re not going , and that' s final !
don' t you give me orders , annie !
i' m a senator of the galactic republic .
you have no authority to contain me , restrain me , or direct me !
you remember your place , young man .
now you can come along and protect me or stay here .
it' s up to you .
yes , it is most confusing .
one moment they' re generating a pleasant mutual attraction and the next , waves of violent hostility .
even though i' m programmed to understand them , i doubt if i ever shall .
it' s empty .
wait !
senator amidala , i' ve heard so much about you .
count dooku , i assume .
i' m delighted to finally meet you .
we have a great deal to talk about .
i hope you can keep your young
jedi under control .
don' t worry he' s housebroken .
you are holding a jedi knight ,
obi wan kenobi .
i am formally requesting you turn him over to me , now .
he has been convicted of espionage , and will be executed .
in just a few hours , i believe .
he is an officer of the republic .
you can' t do that .
we don' t recognize the republic here .
but if naboo were to join our alliance , i could easily hear your plea for clemency .
and if i don' t join your rebellion ,
i assume this jedi with me will also die ?
i don' t wish to make you to join our cause against your will , senator , but you are a rational , honest representative of your people and
i assume you want to do what' s in their best interest .
aren' t you fed up with the corruption , the bureaucrats , the hypocrisy of it all ?
be honest , senator .
the ideals are still alive , count ,
even if the institution is failing .
you believe in the same ideals we believe in !
the same ideals we are striving to make prominent .
if what you say is true , you should stay in the republic and help chancellor palpatine put things right .
the chancellor means well , but is incompetent .
he promised to cut the bureaucracy , but the bureaucrats are stronger than ever .
senator , the republic cannot be fixed .
it is time to start over .
the democratic process in the republic is a sham , a shell game played on the voters .
it will not be long before the cult of greed , called the republic , will lose even the pretext of democracy and freedom .
i cannot believe that .
i will not forsake all i have honoured and worked for and betray the republic .
i know of your treaties with the
trade federation , the commerce
guilds , and the others .
what is happening here is not government that has been bought out by business ... it' s business becoming government !
are you willing to betray your jedi friends ?
without your cooperation i can do nothing to stop their execution .
what is to happen to me ?
am i also to be executed ?
i wouldn' t think of such an offense .
but , there are individuals who have a strong interest in your demise ,
m' lady .
it has nothing to do with politics , i' m afraid .
it' s purely personal , and they have already paid great sums to have you assassinated .
i' m sure they will push hard to have you included in the executions .
i' m sorry but if you are not going to cooperate , i must turn you over to the geonosians for justice .
i' ve done all i can for you .
i' il take that weapon .
you may cause a lot of bloodshed , my young jedi , but you will not escape .
anakin ...
danger ?
oh , no i shouldn' t think so .
it looks like a very dull planet to me .
they should be back shortly .
just stop worrying , artoo .
you have been charged and found guilty of espionage .
do you have anything to say before your sentence is carried out ?
you are committing an act of war .
i hope you are prepared for the consequences .
we build weapons ... it is our business !
of course we' re prepared !
get on with it .
carry out the sentence .
i want to see her suffer .
your other jedi friend is waiting for you .
take them to the arena !
don' t be afraid .
i' m not afraid to die .
i' ve been dying a little bit each day since you came back into my life .
what are you talking about ?
i love you .
you love me ? !
i thought we decided not to fall in love .
that we' d be forced to live a lie .
that it would destroy our lives ...
i think our lives are about to be destroyed anyway .
my love for you is a puzzle , annie , for which i have no answers .
i can' t control it ... and now i don' t care .
i truly , deeply
love you , and before we die i want you to know .
i have no desire to be cured of this love either .
long or short ,
i vow to spend the rest of my life with you .
i retransmitted it , just as you requested , master ... ... then we decided to come and rescue you .
good job .
the geonosians aren' t warriors .
one
jedi has to be worth a hundred geonosians .
we will not be pawns for you to barter with , dooku .
then i am sorry , old friend .
you will be destroyed .
look !
no ! forget about her .
we have to go after dooku !
no !
destroyers are too powerful , we need to fall back .
trust me !
we' ve done it !
we now have a chance .
i have spent the last ten years
learning to use the power of the
dark side .
it gives me infinitely more power .
as you can see , my jedi powers are far beyond yours .
i will bring out your padawan' s weakness and turn him to me !
your mentor , qui gon jinn , would have wanted you to join me .
you don' t deserve to speak his name .
come , come , master kenobi .
put me out of my misery .
no interest in contests , do i have .
the end for you , count , this is .
... not yet ...
anakin !
resistance is at an end , general .
what are your orders ?
the force is with us , my master .
welcome home , lord tyranus .
you have done well .
i bring you good news , my lord .
the war has begun .
excellent .
everything is going as planned .
the prophecy is true ...
the dark side is growing .
i must admit , without the clones it would not have been a victory .
victory ?
victory , you say ?
not a victory .
a defeat, it was , master
obi wan .
begun , the clone war has .
