the sum of all the fears
in 1973 egypt and syria sent to an attack surprise against israel .
for the day the 2 forces of israel was .
in the point to defeat .
in the event in which their ground forceses were destroyed
israeli a4 jet i seize of the patrols with a nuclear pump
29 years later
this safe one that they are the russians ?
one hundred percent sir 15 lanzaron mega tons , every 15 minutes in rosevelt we have missiles , in russia also but is no sufficient personnel .
sir we have another attack , is time of the center .
incredible .
what have alla ' ?
s. a. t. and c. b. m. for the night . the probable targets are new york , washington , here . so good what is east ceiling ?
any thing , that is not direct .
sir is confirmed bird is in the air , multiple attacks . the first impact esteem that will be in twenty five minutes .
com we know that he is exact ?
he is exact .
sir i recommend that we go to def com one .
who is working in the hot line ?
malcon is not so tendre the reports of the reports of moscu . the general is the one that is issuing the orders .
what devils are doing ?
the imbecil queria to experiment .
sir to def com is finishing the time to him .
hganlo .
sir president is going to take a minute before the sequence . of launching processes depus of which of the order . before the order is taken a revision from the identification
my i number is above .
sir is its wife .
thanks .
if another person of the list of . approved must approve the order excrement ! serves the advice to them as the national security .
is black ?
i already go for there .
we can finish this at another moment ?
no .
mira those ventilators if something gets to happen not i am going to put . there , it is a damn tomb there down .
also tendre that to choose to somebody to speak with the germans .
really ?
let us see we have to 27 thousand threats of nuclear pumps to worry to us .
is the type that has it is the one that worries to me . speaking of russia i must send to somebody to investigate there . the facilities of nuclear weapons .
somebody of its personnel must be in the trip .
i ire .
envia your personnel .
no , i want to go .
in agreement .
does not underestimate to zuvalcompel between its economy , the crime , its liver . what it is of him .
adjustment an appointment for the press . it is late we know at least that it is possible to be stopped .
headquarters company langley , goes
you see what i see ?
the jacket .
if it even has it buttoned . above it is being fattened .
i as one feels .
miren that .
perhaps it is not the same jacket .
no .
she is not definitively the one that use for the hospital .
is definitively outside diet .
also it is outside the wagon . they listened to as it said , vasityvuga ?
that must be the reason by which ? ?
tawinsky stays with him to help it .
dond is tawinsky ?
behind ? as she is called , the girl ? of the hair cafe ?
elena rinsko
no , that is not tawinsky . takes hold to you is tawinsky .
no , your you are thinking about chapisky .
i am not it . it is not chapisky either .
i know it , is tawinsky .
i know it , creme .
mira is stopped next to elena rinsko acosto with her ' ? in geniva .
tawinsky was not in geniva .
chapisky was in geniva .
what this saying that tawinsky .. it was having relations with elena ? the only thing that i am saying is that it is not because they must relate it . with sex ?
i agree , escribanlo .. and if zuvalcampel this raising of weight that can bring consequences
in its health ponganlo in the report of afternoon .
somebody averigue that is lying down with elena , this is good .
vlenna , austrla
ell requests protection is like a beautiful virgin , escaping stops . to save to its district .
know the old heads ?
a poet escribio about us those of century 21 ..
by than 50 years america and russia imposing more its war . before the european community , they even treat to us like children . every time we lose a little more our ability and to have of . to make the decisions , for our future .
and every day the war this a little more near that terrible moment . in which the wings of the butterfly untie a hurricane , that nor .
god podra to stop .
what is ?
these blind person ?
it is a pump .
where is fuss ?
this hot one .
vamos i do not have all the night .
is a pump that does not explode .
pongamosla in the truck .
com we are going it to sell ?
always is somebody buys it .
i cannot support all these questions about my health .
robust " and " healthful " voy to be described like " .
is yours or mio ?
is yours , i did not bring mio .
is not of the hospital .
very well .
even these aqui .
i must be exact in everything . in fact you are your who you are even aqui .
is not that me this complaining .
jack i that this it is not the moment but .
i have something i must say or i am going to explode , is single that i do not want . that you are scared .
that ?
these enamored with my .
jack i am a doctor i can read sintomas , definitively these . enamored with my .
and that scares to you ?
nor just a little bit .
olvidalo .
it was extinguished .
not that is but .
at very badly moment .
beam which you must do .
moller , you called to me ?
detente .
if jack speaks
god mio , in agreement estare there in half an hour .
tengo to go to me , i have an emergency in the work .
i must go to me , i feel it .
we had supper tonight ?
if .
that so tomorrow at night ?
jack i said tonight that if . .
what class of emergency has a historian ?
murio to 4 : 22 eight hours and average later named a new one . president , everybody wants to know that is .
who is ?
alexander nemorah .
these joking escribi a paper about for a year .
i claimed that podria to be president .
nobody leyo .
they estan it reading now .
who ?
howard .
i have been aqui fourteen months not even knows as i am .
are you ryan ?
if sir .
what is a this persecution of paper ?
was in .
apurese we go late .
escuchame is going to you to request analysis and advice , so it is better than . you know that these speaking before saying it , you are not scared of . to say that you do not know , escoje well your words , the words must
the custom to become in policy , you hear deme his . jacket , we go we will return it .
the necktie .
well .
is comite of intelligence ?
no .
i have seen these but never i have been .
never time one of these .
our more valuable information comes from a source in its government
in its nemorah opinion to not it must its ascent him to i exercise .
all has opinions , mr. cabit .
i respect that , this morning my wife i rise and she said to me that .
i was old , bald and ugly .
is a question ?
i said to him that the appearances are not everything .
this in agreement mr. cabit ?
certainly .
now that type alexander nemorah
it is that his name ?
in spite of which it says its source of intelligence nemorah is . intransigente .
a intransigente ?
no .
is in a moment for making that information .
according to cnn its nemorah this . making promises reconstruct
the russian empire , that is heard very threatening from where i am
seated .
if it were more in worried estaria chesnia .
sir if we left quiet russia it stabilized and .
when pedi its advice i did not mean that tapeworm that to speak .
if sir .
mr. cabit .
mr. cherman some of the people who we know the government
russian i have not been possible to report would like to have more time . to collect more data for you , before jeopardizing it . but i maintain my opinion that the appearances can be . engaadoras .
this saying that i am mistaken ?
absolutely mr. chapman .
i do not believe that he is ugly .
happens to me of the ray i feel it .
to the senator it does not like . surprises i was saying to them , but he is better to hope .
i understand it .
well .
law about nemorah .
to your fiance it likes to be aqui ?
that ?
cathi miller , second year in the memorial hospital .
welcome to the company .
its intelligence has failed in is subject not llamaria it my fiance , even .
like the llamaria exactly ?
huge , fantastica ..
he is single that gives fear him to commit itself . scares the commitment . a man scares the commitment
after three days , they alert to means . . what does ?
trabajaba in navy before the back is hurt , now ? he is a historian .
delicious .
no , works for a company crossing rio .
double delicious .
vamos to see that you must to say after which knows tonight .
is pretty , has big toes .
cathy .
in scale of pretty from the 1 to the 10 .
god mio .
not it ?
?
twelve .
pregunteles where they found this .
in the field .
was a war back in 1973 .
says that it lost its son
recuerda if there were some derived airplane ?
if destroyed an israel airplane .
is not worth anything .
digale that him dare four hundred reason why him passage to its son .
thanks .
damacus , syrla
encontre which looks for .
i ask for 50 million dollars .
of 1973 done in israel , type 12 pump fission .
alo cathy .
hello thank heavens you called i am . a little slow , you can come in half an hour .
i cannot arrive , i feel much .
was a thing of last minute .
what is that noise ?
i am calling of an airplane , this i am myself deals with llamarte al .. hospital .
to where you go ?
i cannot say that to you .
you cannot say to me to where you go ?
jack .
espera a little while .
sir .
to call to cancel .
you are not estupido dile for where . you go , in fact dile for that you work , is going to be made an impression .
in agreement work for the company and the director me pidio that came
with him to russia to inspect of nuclear weapons .
alo .
that is so low .
cathy you the right of perpetual ownership is truth we must inspect .
alo !
alo !
thanks , thank you very much .
president nemorah ?
is a pleasure .
sir president .
general ryan .
sir president . doctor ryan .
you must be doctor ryan who has made investigations . interesting about my .
deberia not to be surprised by this .
in fact we know that escribio in its report that i had many fiances . in the university .
conoci to my wife in the third year and i have not known another woman .
where recibio honors .
pleases to me .
in that case i also .
first that everything dejeme to excuse to me to take part in the inspection . but there is a message that desire that takes to the president . had called it .
i would like that she listens to it of . you have been your friend by many years , who saw . expression of my body and my face while i say it .
comprendo .
chesnia is an internal subject , which we make deberia there not matter to them .
hay some in my country that would use this subject to work with me .
hay some in my country that dirian that its war in chesnia is . exactly its weakness .
chesnia is a nation of criminals , every day attack innocents citizen russians , is not of its interest .
the stability is our interest .
la paz in chesnia is our interest and if i can speak frankly its control on i exercise is . our interest also .
so that you they envolucren aqui is like sleeping with the wife of . another man .
and what you are suggesting you are that after that we live all . under the same ceiling .
but what truely it happens is that the betrayed husband . it does not accept it .
that was well .
who is danober ?
nobody has had the nutgalls . of desacer itself of .
they have found the bodies ?
no , because probably it buried the same one .
aqui is the list that is the one who and as they are its specialties .
institute of russian scientific researches and is . birthplace of our first atomica pump .
great scientists has worked aqui and many even do it .
tratan as much to enter here .
i envie three people .
all died trying .
what says the t shirt ?
i am a technician in pumps , if they see me running try to reach to me .
sigamos .
sir i feel it is something small is not nothing , according to this must . to have 17 people working today .
single conte 14 .
doctors milanov , oloff and vasket does not estan here .
hare the investigations . doctor milanov is ill .
oloff this of vacations and vasket moan to say to him that it was assassinated
while it handled , the last week .
we can continue ?
please .
very impressive nonwise that had all that information .
wise that would ask , doctor ryan .
halfa , israel
digale that we see ourselves later .
sir . the three scientists , the specialty of milanov is the detonators . the specialty of vasket is the cables and oloff is a mathematician . specialized in the geometrica of high explosives within one . pump fission .
exactly the men who . they necesitarian to construct a pump .
rushcoff thinks that .
rushcoff is a mentiroso , milanov
he is not ill , oloff has not taken vacations in years and vasket .. that supposedly dies handling its car , does not handle .
does not have idea of where they are these types .
i die to ask to him .
as that knows ?
a security source , gives to things i to me i give things , we maintain him
the channels of atras opened to try to avoid the disaster .
speaking of disasters already i call to its fiance ?
no , i am thinking as i am going away to unearth of this .
escucha llamala and invitala the supper in the white house the sabado one in . the night , is tiquete hotter of the city , is going to him to enchant .
brilliant suena .
as i enter ?
confia in my .
vere in the car .
it was liking the work desktop ?
if i am it .
it must go to russia .
so that ?
three nuclear scientists are ? ? lost , i need to know where they are .
pense that no longer was going to do this .
i need information this time . the airplane waits for it , that it has good trip .
sabado at night the hilton hotel the tickets you would estaran under the name
of john lark .
it has clothes ?
if sir .
my beautiful julie wife , is of new yersey , fifteen votes .
as they know half is judios , we took the twenty votes from florida
and we divided them in two .
perhaps after the supper we can , not it ? to make reservations .
already i did it .
when i was in the war of vietnam in several occasions smokes marijuana
californian 54 votes .
approximately to the zero six hundred moscu realized
that the russians habian sent missiles against grosnia .. the capital of chesnia . the projectiles contains an experimental chemistry , which later . of twenty minutes all the men and children around 12 miles . they presented/ displayed sintomas of cerebral paralisis .
god mio .
whichever deaths ?
creemos that 80 % .
what means that nemorah finishes mounting the most massive attack . in the history of the chemical war we speak of the answer . the worse thing than we can do is nothing .
i agree , if we left it . to send chemical arms .
that it follows ?
biologicas , nuclear .
in agreement , as is the answer more hard than we can send .
mandamos to the pacificadores .
that does not solve anything .
well , they asked for recognition , so . we recognize , nonrecognition diplomaticamente , recognition . provisional , soon we cause that the ches request emergency aid to us . national and we sent pacificadores .
as we entered them ? the fastest form would be to send them from turkey .
on airspace arminy .
to the devil with russia , they no .. they are going away to complain .
hagamoslo .
doctor ryan who thinks ?
sir president sabiduria conventional suggests nemorah
the russian traditional paper is playing , the aggressive ones desafian al .. world so that it stops them , but nemorah is not conventional . walks like a intransigente , speaks like intransigente ..
if but yet respect not that is one .
acaba of destriur the capital of a country , its respect is single yet .
what so if nemorah did not order the attack ?
that so if he were a general , or a unit of i exercise frustada by . that could not remove the rest from the rebels outside the city .
tiene some reason to think that i do not order it or is guessing ?
you do not know it .
i do not believe that it has done it , sir .
apostaria that did not do it .
that its personnel retires please by a minute .
president alexander nemorah is going to go to the town .
disculpe sir , can raise to him .
finally each nation has the right of defenderse ..
the terrorism must finish , the pump of chesnia was my decision .
therefore becomes .
general phildyan mitkin copied old communists .
bastard .
sueltenlos  the mataria i myself .
single desaparecelos .
it' s execution would not be good .
since our russian friend with this has been affected ?
i am not affected , i remain devotee to our small plan .
i am not surprised .
and the american ?
she is a believer , i put to him little . more than money in the account .
so that ' ?
so that vivira the sufficient thing not to receive it .
where is the package ? envio of taifo for one week .
says to me that these things can kill to me .
i do not believe that this is good , have changed so many things .
perhaps the new situation suggests we use a different approach .
to perhaps try to bring to russia a little more to europe , a little more a .. our form to think
already we have discussed that , and has been rejected .
perhaps we exceeded , perhaps our plan is .
is that ?
not perfectly conceived .
these crazy person ?
around the world , all . the nations we are united european , russian nazis , aryan . all working together .
is not that a perfect plan ?
i respect the decision of my friends but in these two weeks i have myself . returned incomodo , with this plan , so i must request to them by my exit .
perhaps we help him to leave .
baltlmore , maryland
tengan taken care of with that thing , is going to kill somebody .
hello mase .
always i wanted to ask to him where they did that tattoo to him .
in navy .
i was in the basket , works . in the hospital by six years .
eight months care .
is or brother , who you pass it or .
hare .
the package has arrived .
the attack in chesnia ..
our forces estan in way to chesnia , to serve like . pacificantes for aids to victimas of this monstrous attack .
i waited for that .
really ?
what you go to do ?
nothing . we will not do anything .
these has four hours they have not moved .
so that they have not moved ?
nemorah is very intelligent stops . to move those tanks .
the speech .
jack watches , nemorah has as 19 thousand tanks there is no form of that . they can compete with that .
for that reason one is not going away them to move .
is like playing the chess , this moving three pieces , knows . that has many more tanks than we and it knows that . the only form that we must to stop is using it nuclear weapons and does not want to risk a nuclear war by this .
creo that is sending us a message .
the nonbombing to roxny .
arzamas 16 russla
disculpe .
i am looking for mrs. spassky .
at the end of the runner .
i have not seen sasha from the university .
you were your assistant of education , that strange not it memory .
i listen that she was in arzamas and me pidio that came .
says that it took me to the west .
that requires of much money .
single because the imbeciles of do not pay to him here , does not mean that . others you would not haran it . has a secret work .
for the government ?
imbeciles with money .
one idiotes , you do this , you do not do this .
until dijieron to him that it did not call to its mother .
pigs .
could die at any time and i could not call to its mother .
but my sasham i am called .
last night .
clark i find out number to us n. s. a. could obtain all the numbers
of the calls that entered and they tracked it here , it is a base . of i exercise left sovietico .
what estan making three atomicos scientists russian in ukrana ?
creo that is constructing a pump .
nemorah has thousands of pumps .
so that it needs to do privily ?
negamiento
construye one of which nobody knows it can take to chesnia in . the suitcase of its car , would not be form to track it .
could send it and say that it did not do it .
its respect sir i do not believe yet that that has sense .
if it has sense .
is single that you do not like the sense that she has .
ah , the calidez of the disturbed plutonium . completely is disturbed , you at least have the put gloves .
quieren to smoke an american cigarette ?
these crazy person ?
voy to leave .
tenemos a pump ?
tenemos a pump ?
if .
if we have it .
this is an examination .
if .
contesta .
if .
contesta . these safe ?
alo .
if .
if sir .
tengo to outside go by a minute already return .
already return .
sir i write reports .
law your military registries .
jack you can cuidarte .
if sir , but i am not . trained for that .
i am not requesting to him that is . an operations officer , single my oidos eyes and .
i cannot go .
that i must do ?
quiero that him of this to clark , to see that he can find out , traelo .. to house
if sir .
jack .
never we had is conversation .
which conversation ?
kremenchung reservolr , ukranla
well , this has been for three days .
sample vehicles here , guards here and here .
the satellite was on guard the twenty four hours , shows . guards here and here .
i need to make my task .
hay two more in the point of revision between two and three in barricks .. and two with the package , which we think that they estan here . is no problem with tranquilizers we will leave in . six minutes .
in fact is a problem .
which ?
this was yesterday , are no guards .
and so that a problem is that ?
for two reasons , or we cannot see them what is bad or worse . they were and we arrived late .
vistete .
that ' ?
you cannot go dress thus .
no , i am not an analyst , i i do not go to missions .
double relajate 007 is not a mission is single an investigation .
well , like is that i call i do not do that , single i write reports .
in agreement writes a report about it , vistete .
clark no .
clark .
no .
told me that you were in the supper of the white house .
you passed it well ?
clark , who ' ?
no
i am not going to enter .
i that not quedate here and . asegurate of which nobody robs my boat .
already return .
god mio .
god mio , did not call immigration ?
i feel it , english speech ?
i do not speak ucraniano .
i that this is not seen well but am myself an american i have my ? papers here .
in agreement noncoat the papers .
please single lowers the weapon .
the light ?
they want that it lowers the light ?
either , or , calmense lowers the light .
