weatherman to all checkpoints .
i' m looking for status on 99 alpha , please , between valle de trinidad and milling .
they race the clock in a land that defies time ,
sharing an adventure in a place where reality is on holiday .
it' s the most beautiful place in the world .
it' s the most scary place in the world .
and it' s the most desolate , quiet place .
you love it , you hate it , you love it , you hate it , you love it , you hate it .
you don' t wanna be there , you wanna be there .
it' s like a girl that breaks your heart .
i hate you , i never wanna see you again .
i' m sorry .
can i come over ?
you look up at the stars and there' s no smog .
you smell the ocean breeze , you hear the birds .
you hear the whales , you hear the seals .
i think baja gives you that opportunity to feel that , to get closer to something that' s more instinctual .
it' s difficult to put into words because it' s an emotion .
that' s what baja is , something you feel .
what do you call a race where anybody with any vehicle can enter , a race where 200, 000 spectators come but no one pays admission ,
a race that takes 32 hours for 1, 200 people to battle 1, 000 merciless miles for a million different reasons ?
call it the tecate score baja 1000 .
someone asked parnelli jones , and he said it' s like being in a 24 hour plane crash .
' cause the 1000 , so much can go on .
think about what happens , you know , in the daytona 500 .
and they' re going around a smooth track , and the pit' s in the same spot every time .
you know , we got buses and cows and horses and ...
mountains and beaches and deserts .
you' re in dust , you' re in rocks .
it' s gullies , it' s washouts , it' s 100 miles an hour , 20 miles an hour .
so many roads out there , and little ranches here and there .
every one of these jumps , every one of these turns is different than the last one .
tell you what , you don' t fall asleep here .
i lived it , i ate it , i slept it , and i can totally understand when other people get caught up in the mystique of it , trying to beat time itself and get to the finish line .
it' s an unreal feeling .
it' s only about 100 miles south of san diego , but ensenada is a whole nother world . and the closer you get to it , the more confusing it becomes .
mouse had the inspiration and fish gave his approval ,
but it was my good buddy scott waugh who convinced me to make this movie about the longest nonstop point to point race in the world .
my name is dana brown .
and when i thought i knew , i hadn' t a clue .
we got dana brown .
dana just came out of step into liquid .
they are doing a feature called dust to glory on the tecate score baja 1000 .
that' s sal fish .
he' s in charge .
an honest promoter .
why not ?
this whole thing started with a stuntman nicknamed after a rodent .
there' s the odds .
hey , we' re three to one .
look at this .
i' m two to one favorite .
this is mouse .
a real force of nature .
somehow you always end up doing whatever he' s doing .
take his posse ... one legend and two childhood friends .
also getting sucked into mouse' s orbit were the griders , andy and neil .
andy won the 1000 last year .
can you bet this ?
yeah , at caliente .
hey , billy , you can bet this at caliente .
let' s put some odds on ourselves .
let' s go bet on ourselves .
i think in mexico you can do that .
it' s not like ...
who' s that guy ...
pete rose ?
seems like everybody enters the 1000 .
they' ve raced everything here from rolls royces to winnebagos .
the bago didn' t make it very far .
these racers are from all walks of life .
including the prodigal son , the hawaiian surfer ,
the father , son , and grandson , king of the beetles ,
team estrogen , the perennial champs ,
the greatest ever , and those indy dudes .
they don' t close the race course off for anybody .
you' re out there with joe public , or in this case , jose public .
for the people of baja .
this is one of the biggest days of the year .
we can really relate to racing , off road racing .
and you meet people , you just start talking .
start talking about the last race , the next race .
you remember this and you remember that .
you end up with four or five guys around you , and that' s called picking up dust here in this town .
as the party atmosphere fades , all the contradictions and metaphors begin to make sense to me .
this isn' t about a race .
it' s about the race .
the human race .
which i figure is exactly how sal fish intended it .
the roads aren' t closed .
locals driving backwards on the course .
you' ve got locals racing right next to you .
you' ve got chase vehicles , and they' re on the course where they shouldn' t be .
you know , i mean , this is not for wusses .
let' s face it .
without question .
sal fish is the baja 1000 .
he marks a different course each year .
he deals with the concerns of the ranchers , of the police . as well as demands of contestants and spectators .
i haven' t met anyone that has the stupidity , i guess , that i have that would do it the way i do .
and i never stop thinking about this .
it' s a 24 hour deal and i love it .
get families together and guys with the $10, 000 vehicle and guys with the $2 million vehicle .
i could never imagine having sal fish' s job .
having 300 people like robby gordon showing up there wanting to go racing , and everybody has their own agenda .
everybody plays by the same rules .
they all pay the same entry fee .
i wanna make sure our hardcore grassroot guys are always at score and there' s a place for them to race .
sal' s values are reflected in a race that' s open to everyone , from the little guy to the big guy .
the famous and anonymous ... all equal , all simply racers .
pre dawn .
air temperature , 45 degrees .
motorcycles and quads will start three hours ahead of the field .
a flurry of flashbulbs announces johnny campbell' s arrival .
a win today would be a record breaking seven in a row .
trying to keep loose was 62 year old j. n. roberts , a true legend in off road racing .
always gotta keep moving .
harder target to hit .
mouse arrived .
he' s very quiet .
unusually subdued .
mouse doesn' t know this but when i was a little kid , he was my hero .
he' d go out smokin ' everybody .
wow , who' s this mouse mccoy ?
then all of a sudden , disappeared .
i started racing when i was four years old .
and by 17 i was just flat burned out .
nothing you could do about it .
you don' t have any context of what you' re doing as a kid .
all you know is you hate it , you' re done , you' re sick of it .
actually that' s the best thing that' s ever happened to me
' cause now i love riding motorcycles more than ever .
and maybe i wouldn' t have loved it so much had i kept going .
for every bike there' s usually three , four , or five riders .
johnny campbell would be riding the first 205 miles before handing it over to steve hengeveld .
we' il see ya at the finish line .
j. n. would ride 110 before giving it to his son jimmy .
mouse mccoy wouldn' t run 100 , 200 , or even 500 miles .
mouse had a different plan .
he was gonna race the entire baja 1000 solo .
one man' s name is synonymous for racing the baja solo ... the ironman , ivan stewart .
well , to do a 1, 000 mile race in a car is tough , but at least you can sit down and get a drink of water and you' re protected a lot more .
and to do it on a motorcycle , i mean , i can' t fathom it .
that' s tough .
anybody can trail ride the thing for the thousand miles .
but to be competitive and do it was a whole different deal .
and i knew i looked up to him , and now , wow , i' m really gonna look up to him if he finishes this thing .
this is gonna be amazing .
people say , " don' t you worry about your son ?
no , i don' t worry about him because he' s gifted .
and he usually gets there .
i think mouse is one of the best when it comes to preparing .
he pre ran down here more than anybody i' ve ever seen .
supercross legend ricky johnson .
who' s like mouse' s big brother , had some reservations .
not because he' s a bad rider .
he' s a great rider .
not because he was out of shape .
he was in great shape .
but for those exact things .
he knew how good a shape he was in and he knew how fast he was .
and i knew if he got into a competition with other riders that are fresher , fresher , fresher , fresher ,
i was afraid he was gonna die .
survival .
that' s all it is .
you survive , you' il win it .
soft and smooth , brother .
soft and smooth .
at 6 : 30 the race began .
they' il leave 30 seconds apart .
at 6 : 31 and 30 seconds , johnny campbell takes off .
chris blaze of the honda b team leaves the line at 6 : 33 .
j. n. roberts , 6 : 37 : 30 .
if a car pulls out in front of a speeding car , results are dented metal and possible injury .
if a car pulls out in front of a speeding motorcycle , results are probable death , which was exactly the fate of former baja champion danny hamel in 1995 , only a few miles outside of ensenada .
mouse mccoy .
6 : 37 .
and the rhythm of the race begins .
at 6 : 46 : 30 . the quads began to join the fray .
mile 38 . there is no flagman .
no flagman .
by the 50 mile mark .
johnny campbell had settled into his usual lead .
in second was chris blaze of the honda b team .
mouse . in an effort to show his newfound maturity , had gone from sixteenth to fourth in the first hour .
for a motorcyclist to compete at the front of the pack he has to fully commit .
he has to hurl himself into the void .
mouse was on fire .
and just as amazing was j. n. roberts passing riders a third of his age until our camera helicopter got a little close and j. n. went down .
we missed the shot .
and 30 miles away , jimmy roberts had a sudden premonition that he' d miss his ride .
if j. n. couldn' t get back on the bike , their day was over .
it didn' t seem fair .
j. n. ' s a living legend , winner of the first baja 1000 back in 1967 .
that was a era when as many as 3, 000 riders would start a california desert race , and j. n. roberts would win 27 in a row .
when i was growing up , of course he was the man in the desert .
and any time we' d be out riding motorcycles and i' d do something that my dad thought was pretty good , he' d say , " oh , all right , j. n. good job , j. n.
so j. n. was this mythical figure in my mind .
so when i had the chance to actually race with him it was a pretty awesome experience for me .
i wanna make sure it works for j. n.
first time back in 30 years to baja for him .
it' s kind of exciting to go riding with him .
he can' t seem to get the bike started , though .
new technology .
get it to the top of the stroke .
j. n. won two of the first three baja 1000s .
he' d come back to team with jimmy .
who was racing in his first .
he just recently won the vet world championships .
and now here he is two weeks later racing baja .
and then in january he signs up for social security .
so he' s had quite a year .
don' t rub it in .
hey , social insecurity .
yeah .
j. n. didn' t get a lot of time to reminisce about his past victories because jimmy , mouse , and greg tracy had him on a rigorous pre run schedule .
pre running is when you get to practice your section of the course .
now , in mouse' s case . all the sections were his section , so j. n. got to do a lot of pre running .
i' il tell you what , the ol ' butt in the last few days is taking a lickin ' .
taking a lickin ' .
no pun intended .
we still live in different states , so we don' t see each other all the time .
but when we do see each other , it' s usually around a motorcycle based environment .
and he' s so , like , compulsive disorder kind of ...
really goes over things over and over and over .
and i can see myself when i' m by myself becoming that a little bit myself .
i love you to death , but some of your habits drive me crazy .
but the roles reverse .
it' s just funny .
it' s just the way it is .
it' s life .
look at the mccoys .
we' ve seen that yesterday with them .
yeah , they have the same relationship , kind of .
they' re kind of bagging on each other all the time .
like a couple ol ' hens most of the time .
what can you do about it ?
it' s your blood .
they can' t fire ya .
jimmy and j. n. are less father and son , they' re more like clones .
well , i know i' m a lot more cautious than he is .
let' s try and be nice .
he' s just , you know , " yeah , pin it , dad .
well , i don' t know what' s over that hill .
so i back off and roll it off a little bit because i' m gonna go home and cut wood this winter .
i got things i gotta do .
where he' s just got a little more ...
you gotta have a little faith , trust yourself .
i do trust myself , but that' s still who i am .
i don' t have it that way , but i think that comes with doing a lot and age .
j. n. may talk about getting old ,
but how many 62 year olds can pick up a 300 pound motorcycle ?
no matter his age , j. n. ' s a father , and he' s not about to let down his son .
by any standard , j. n. roberts is a true motorcycle legend .
50 % of a legend is better than 100 % of someone like me .
when jimmy finally got his turn he took full advantage of it , getting all the way up to eighth place overall and not being passed for 300 miles .
j. n. ' s shoulder was possibly separated , putting in jeopardy the plan for him to ride the last 50 miles to the finish later that night .
in the meantime there was nothing to do but sit back and reminisce about the good ol ' days .
a few of the old time boys used to come down here and ...
but long before it was a race .
just to see if they could get from tijuana down to la paz .
and just to find your way was a chore .
you telegraph the time you leave and you pick up the telegraph and check in your time when you get to la paz .
that' s the only way you could document it .
there wasn' t anybody down here with helicopters flying in those days to follow us .
when promoter ed perlman announced plans for the inaugural mexican 1000 , race legend malcolm smith immediately thought of two things ... get j. n. roberts for his partner and buy a map .
i tried to get him to read the guidebook so he' d know his way .
he said , " i don' t need any guidebook .
i can always find my way .
on the day of the race .
the press was told the first vehicle would arrive at san ignacio , the halfway point , at around 5 a . m .
malcolm arrived at 5 p . m . , a full 12 hours earlier . and eight hours ahead of the next vehicle .
as evening settled in , j. n. began his journey guided by a weak front headlight and a unique sense of direction .
i seen this light and i thought i was going the right direction , and it was a star , and i just kept following it .
i said , " there' s a checkpoint .
it' s gotta be a checkpoint .
kept going on .
i totally went to the other side of the coast , which i shouldn' t have went to .
out of gas , j. n. managed to refuel at a local fishing village .
he then crossed the entire peninsula one more time , where he ran out of gas again .
he had traveled hundreds of miles and hadn' t made an inch towards the finish line .
we found him sleeping under a cactus .
he says , " i don' t have a clue where i am .
can i follow you in ?
i think it took him , i don' t know , 14 hours or something .
but he slept six of ' em anyway .
i' il tell you what .
i don' t remember half of it .
it was the ' 60s and ' 70s , wasn' t it ?
yeah , the ' 60s and ' 70s were real good to me .
despite the nocturnal adventure , j. n. and malcolm would be crowned the inaugural motorcycle champions .
you know , as you go through life , if you knew you were making history , you would' ve paid more attention to it .
if one man legitimized the baja 1000 , it was parnelli jones .
winner of the 1963 indy 500 , his presence , along with fellow competitors steve mcqueen and james garner . gave birth to the baja mystique .
and over the years , everyone seems to have raced the baja .
but there' s one notable exception who' s never managed to make it until now ... the greatest race car driver ever , mario andretti .
great opportunity , and so happy that i did it because i got some taste of it .
sal fish invited mario to be this year' s grand marshal .
his mere presence can make grown men act like schoolchildren .
mario andretti could' ve been anywhere in the world , and he was in ensenada at the score baja 1000 .
that , to me , i' il never forget that .
it was a highlight of my career .
say the name andretti , and that' s speed , that' s auto racing .
that' s it .
and it' s global .
it' s a universal word .
he' s the best .
i love that guy .
i gotta get the car heated up and my seat buffed ' cause mario' s coming .
he' s gonna sit right there .
for todd .
this culminated years of hero worship , a chance to bond with his idol .
mario' s , i think , taken the bait .
he' s thinking , " you know , i can do this .
i want you to drive it slowly , and i' m gonna sit there ...
yeah , sure .
he took the wheel before todd could cry for help .
there' s a very good reason the name andretti is synonymous with speed ...
because it' s synonymous with speed .
feeling the pre run truck here ,
i could see how you could all of a sudden find yourself in a ditch upside down really easy .
all of a sudden he' s pushing the thing pretty hard , we' re on the right hand side , stuff' s going right by me .
so i said , " hey , mario , you gotta slow down .
i think there' s some horses coming up .
there weren' t horses coming up , but anything to get this thing slowed down .
what did you think of that ?
what did you think of that ?
i loved it .
todd' s hyperventilating had stopped .
unfortunately , so did his truck , 20 miles from civilization .
it' s died .
we' ve got no battery .
didn' t go fast enough .
you didn' t go fast enough to charge the battery .
eventually a ride pulled up .
the lady in the truck obviously didn' t follow racing ,
but she knew a good head for hats when she saw one .
i' m sorry to do this to you , but ...
the husband , on the other hand , knew instantly that the man carrying his dirty laundry was a living legend .
chris and sam , you' re my saviors .
mario andretti , it' s a pleasure to meet you .
i' ve heard of you for years and years .
the couple happily drove 20 miles out of their way , compensated with a mere autograph .
pure baja magic .
everything goes wrong and then works out perfectly .
see , you turned out to be the highlight of our day .
well , you' re the highlight of ours , too .
mario couldn' t get over the potential in off road racing .
it' s incredible , you know , what has been developed .
but i keep saying , i mean , the imagination is the only limit .
these are for the rock stars of the baja , the unlimited classes , the big money race teams that use choppers for chase vehicles .
it' s the most dynamic thing you can do .
you have everything you want .
you have 800 horsepower , you' ve got three feet of suspension , you got a chromoly cage , you got a breathing apparatus , you got a co rider telling you you need to do these different things .
if you could look under " macho " in the dictionary , there' d be a trophy truck .
the racer most identified with the baja 1000 is nascar driver robby gordon .
i mean , this is his world .
it isn' t in nascar .
this is where he' s the king .
and you can see everybody defer to him here .
robby was just a kid when i took him for a ride out in saddleback in one of the blazers , and i can remember seeing his helmet up here .
you know , he just loved it .
robby became baja' s boy wonder .
he' s gone on to make millions racing from daytona to indy , but he never forgets his roots .
i left home on sunday night , we flew out in a helicopter , got on a commercial airline , and flew to l. a.
left at 5 a . m .
to come down here .
we pre ran monday and tuesday .
did the whole course in two days .
he was a little cocky and , you know , it probably hurt him in a lot of ways .
i know where everybody' s at .
i' m gonna watch every car go by the wayside .
the car' s good enough that at 75% w , it' s as fast as everybody else .
you know , a lot of good race drivers are cocky .
numbers are drawn for starting position .
robby got the last spot .
while starting at the very front of the line was hawaiian alan pflueger in his very first race in a trophy truck .
you can' t really describe it .
you' ve gotta experience it .
and it' s awesome .
it' s a controlled explosion .
it' s like trying to hold a piece of dynamite , keep the explosion in your hand .
it' s driving that fine line where you get off that line , it gets hairy .
it gets really hairy .
but it' s fun .
it' s fun on that line .
you need binoculars to drive ' cause you don' t look at the bumps .
you just look at , you know , like an aurora that you might come off this side and hit the other side .
you' ve got the ability to go so fast .
but the challenge is to be smart enough to go slow enough to finish the race .
' cause any dummy can go out there and put their foot down and go fast .
but you gotta know when to lift and put that brake on .
the highways are open to all traffic during the race .
matter of fact , all the roads are .
they have things like speed limits , but since it' s a race and boys will be boys , most ignore ' em .
after all , who' s gonna catch ' em ?
i wasn' t speeding .
well , the authorities were slightly miffed .
but pflueger immediately saw the error of his ways and turned state evidence and was deputized .
when we were listening on the radio to where the cars were ,
i hear there' s a bunch of cops have pulled over all the heroes in the sport and they' re on the side of the road having a doughnut convention .
and just like that , two of baja' s finest stopped 70 people and $50 million of race equipment .
meanwhile behind them , the open wheeled brother to the trophy truck , the class 1 buggies , surged off the line .
these vehicles are unlimited , meaning the engine size is unlimited and so is the budget .
ranging between $300, 000 and $1 million , these are expensive cars .
if you win , four grand maybe .
behind the big money of the class 1 buggies is a lot of heart , a quality best exemplified by an off road racing dynasty , the mcmillin family .
my dad and brother decided they were gonna race one race in 1976 for the baja 1000 , just race it once , and then sell the car .
just to say they did it , you know ?
and when i was in that class 9 with eight inches of wheel travel , a 50 horsepower motor , i really thought i was gonna win overall .
i mean , i thought , " i got a chance here .
at 74 , corky mcmillin is still chasing his dream .
you know , people ask me today , with my age and everything ...
i said , " well , the only person i really have to please is myself .
and if i feel like i' m competing and doing good and hanging in there ,
i' m happy , i' m satisfied .
the mcmillins are a successful family in more ways than one .
and i see corky still line up to get a shower in the morning before the race in a line at a campground behind all the guys that work in his company .
and you can' t tell which one' s corky and which one' s driving nails the next day .
it makes us all have something in common to kind of get together with , and it' s not the bosses and the employees .
i mean , we' re all just a bunch of people trying to have fun and enjoy life , and we' re doing it .
he' s had to miss a couple because of health reasons , but you know what ?
take one race at a time , and the next race he was back .
my body thinks my brain' s gone crazy .
the mcmillin with the most championships is mark .
he' s also one of the most successful drivers in the history of the baja 1000 , but it' s been 14 years since his last victory .
there' s ups and there' s downs .
but something that i' ve always taken from my dad and i' m trying to give to my boys is you never , never , never give up .
whether it' s at work , whether it' s racing , or something you' re trying to accomplish at home with your family , we just never , ever , ever give up .
mark mcmillin got off to a fantastic start , roaring through the first 80 miles .
but once again , bad luck struck .
at ojos negros he' d have to change his entire transmission .
way too early .
way too early .
it' il be a long day .
we' il get a finish out of it , that' s for sure .
and off the line in scott mcmillin' s buggy was a rookie driver , his 16 year old son andy .
ever since like i was two or three years old , i used to go pre running with my dad .
i started driving a clutch when i was probably six or seven years old .
i had a lot of trust in him as we , you know , developed our relationship driving and just taught him what i learned from my dad .
at first andy had a little problem staying on course .
watch it .
remember , there' s a hole here .
remember ?
stop .
here , go this way .
stop !
i think about it , and i think when i have a kid ,
i' m never gonna have like the trust that he has in me .
now take your time .
take your time doing it .
but he settled down .
go .
you' re running with the big dogs , boy .
the trust that scott had in his son was well deserved .
after a couple of wild rides early .
andy had gotten it together and was in first place in his class when he turned it over to his father .
probably hit him a little too hard , bud .
you got it , you got it .
make some dust .
good man .
while the mcmillins have fun on the cutting edge of technology , there are those who enjoy something slightly more antiquated .
this is class 11 , which gives a whole new definition to the word " underdog .
you really get the satisfaction of talking to someone that races a trophy truck , a class 1 motorcycle , looking at you and saying ,
oh , you race class 11 .
guy , you must be crazy .
hey , those guys are the toughest guys out there .
you know , they' ve got little support , you know , vehicles that are extremely challenged , and they go for it .
that' s the hardcore baja racer right there .
these are unmodified volkswagen beetles .
not the new beetle , but the old beetle , pre 1982 .
no modification of the suspension or engine is allowed .
we are losing our dashboard .
what they lack in speed they more than make up for in passion .
it' s a feeling inside of this one .
we born know bajas , and we die knowing bajas , too .
i think they' re real men .
i mean , there' s some stuff that i have no idea how they get through .
racing class 11 , it' s very , very important to finish the race .
sometimes there are no signs left .
our time limit is sometimes very , very narrow for us .
so it' s very significant to go through whatever you have to go through in getting there , just getting there .
stand by .
he' s on his way .
air clear .
looks like we' re going right .
by noon everyone had left the starting line and racers began to settle into their groove , which isn' t always a good thing .
well , that' s the end of our race .
isn' t that a shame ?
yeah , that sucks , man .
that rock is what got me .
just the average person who has a 9 to 5 job has 10, 000 close calls over the course of a life .
it' s the light that you run through .
go through an intersection and that split second later somebody runs a red light and goes behind you , you never even saw it .
down here you' re doing like all 10, 000 in one day .
i think when you get back home , after you do something like that , it' s like slo mo , life is slo mo .
everything else , that' s no big deal .
you got a job interview or you' re showing up for something big , well , what' s the worst thing that could happen ?
somebody says no , you know , to a sales job ?
well , i just almost got killed 40 times .
so not really that big of a deal .
it' s key to deal with adversity .
al hogan uprighted his truck and was back in the race .
we know it was gonna roll over .
it don' t seem to phase this one .
this truck likes it , i guess .
rides better now than it did before .
getting them shocks broke in from rolling it over .
yeah .
what was that all about ?
i don' t know .
good thing there wasn' t a rock there , though .
mike , i' m telling you , the back end is just softer .
it' s just too soft .
the good baja racer is prepared for anything .
like number 560 , who did a complete roll just outside of ensenada .
unphased , he straightened the windshield wipers out and his daughter , who knew a thing or two about twist ties , got the door shut .
and believe it or not , he finished the race 835 miles later , twist tie in place .
then you have the example of team hibachi , who opted for an impromptu pit stop to demonstrate two very distinct methods of firefighting ... the hyperkinetic smother method which got the flames 60 % contained , and the much more laid back low altitude water drop .
but there are those who are just not prepared ,
like this fella , who lost his gas cap .
and the fire , it was about this wide when i looked back .
you got a gas cap ?
we got something we could probably set up for ya .
look at that fit .
that' il work .
you got some tools that are salvageable in here .
you don' t see help like this every day .
you need a flashlight ?
jason , i think you' re gonna be okay , my friend .
we' re pretty sure he made it , despite some evidence to the contrary .
there are things that are impossible to prepare for ,
like your engine falling off , sitting there , mocking you .
near the ostrich ranch , 15 year old kevin denault was prepared , his video camera at the ready to shoot his uncle bob as he raced past .
the ostriches were in shock .
even cars fly better than they do .
it turned out that young denault had the only footage of his uncle' s wreck , which had taken place right in front of him at the only place their paths would cross for a thousand miles .
what are the odds ?
probably about the same as being eaten by an ostrich .
the buggy wasn' t prepared to stop in the middle of the road .
and the volkswagen wasn' t prepared for such little room .
neither were prepared that the buggy would start from the bumpers touching and that the volkswagen wouldn' t start .
then a good samaritan came along , waved along the truck , which got its fender ripped off ... ... thus starting the volkswagen .
a pattern had begun to develop .
there' s one element that is more feared and loathed than any other ... silt .
silt is bottomless talcum powder .
when you get home , the silt still comes out of your eyes and your nostrils for two and three days later .
you can' t fathom what baja is until you' ve experienced it .
explaining silt to someone , that you hit it and you can' t see anything and you have to keep your foot down .
i thought i had it all figured out .
the first time i hit silt , i was going , " oh , my ...
don' t let off the gas .
whatever you do , do not let off the gas .
in baja , everyone agrees about two things ... silt sucks , and you should never question authority .
the civility displayed by the racers during the trophy truck debacle had convinced the police to let them off with a stern warning and an escort off the highway .
now .
for some reason , mark post decided starting second wasn' t asking too much .
mark miller , already in second , wasn' t buying it .
so post decided to settle for starting third .
third place herbst was indignant .
a feud had begun .
ironically , the roadblock and police escort had erased the 30 second gaps used at the start of the race .
which meant a concern for safety would spawn a 20, 000 horsepower free for all .
nice , very nice .
alan pflueger , who had already been crowned the season champ in the protruck class , was making his debut in a trophy truck and shocking everyone .
he was running away with it .
go , go , go , pflueger , go !
running second through valle de trinidad was mark miller and ryan arceiro .
mark post had been knocked back to sixth place by vengeful herbst , but not for long .
he was roaring back , hellbent on getting even .
bouncing past dan smith , terrible herbst lies ahead .
they hit valle de trinidad like something out of the book of revelations ,
through the center of town side by side at over 100 miles an hour .
amazingly , no one was hurt .
just some metal got bent ... the racer' s calling card .
the only way people know in off road racing that a car' s behind you , you come up and give ' em a little bump in the back and they kind of move over ' cause they know a faster vehicle' s behind ' em .
if they don' t move out of the way , take ' em for a ride .
you don' t know fear until you look in the rearview and see robby gordon .
got ken on your tail .
he' s catching up to you pretty quick here .
everything that could' ve gone wrong went wrong .
it' s not a pit stop .
got one crazy mad driver right there .
robby had gotten a flat but his pit crew was unprepared ,
putting robby in full tilt .
he blazed through 30 miles on a flat tire to nearly be in first place before finally getting a change .
while the trophy trucks and class 1 buggies represent the power and glamour of the baja 1000 .
the true symbol of victory is the motorcycle , specifically a motorcycle ridden by johnny campbell and steve hengeveld .
with six straight overall titles , johnny and steve stand atop a mountain with seemingly nowhere to go but down .
the pressure of winning is always there .
and when you win several times in a row , not only do you wanna do it again for yourself , but , you know , when you got a corporate company like honda , let' s say , for johnny and steve , they want them to win , and they know that .
you don' t see it the way you used to see it when you used to look up .
you know you' ve conquered it , you' ve won it , and you just wanna win another one .
you expect it .
you just expect it .
anything less is unacceptable .
to beat the elements , to have the equipment stay together , there' s really a lot of things against ya .
i mean , i' ve bounced off of front ends of cars ,
i' ve bounced off of fences , i' ve bounced off of cattle .
you know , it' s a little bit like russian roulette .
after he won his tenth baja 1000 ,
larry roeseler decided to stop competing for the overall title on a motorcycle .
he felt his time was due .
the next year , danny hamel , starting in roeseler' s traditional spot , would have his fatal accident .
there is certain risks you take .
you can' t live in a box , or you' re just gonna run from everything .
how do you let him do what he does ?
and i said , " one , we make our living at it .
number two is ,
the day i tell him that he can' t , he' s gonna die in a car accident going up the 405 to torrance , you know ?
i mean , when it' s your day , it' s your day .
he' s expecting honda 1 x.
like everything else in baja , communication is difficult .
it can take a while to hear bad news .
we need a new front axle and a new front wheel .
do you copy ?
i copy , a new front axle and a new front wheel .
that' s affirmative .
he had a problem early on and clipped a big boulder and had to change a front wheel once already but the axle' s tweaked and this wheel' s wobbly , so he' il need to , just like you say , make it right .
johnny had dislocated his thumb ,
and all he wanted to do was turn the bike over to steve and assess the damage .
only two minutes behind came chris blaze of the honda b team .
for the first time in years , johnny' s lead was tenuous .
he' d tape his hand and be ready for the next leg .
unfortunately there are accidents that require more than gauze and tape .
that' s when it' s time for the weatherman .
from a repeater station atop mount diablo .
bob steinberger is the eyes and ears of the race .
score ops , copy weatherman .
i have an emergency .
advise the hospital that we need immediate ...
for over three decades .
steinberger' s been head of communications for the 1000 , a job he does for free .
in the early ' 70s he was doing relays , and he was putting up an antenna with weather balloons and someone called him the weatherman , and it stuck .
you know , my dad' s 65 years old .
he climbs to the top of this 50 foot tower on top of an 11, 000 foot peak and puts this antenna up , and right over it' s like a 5, 000 foot drop down a sheer mountain .
it' s crazy .
i mean , he' s a great guy and he loves this sport .
we have an injured driver at race mile 55 .
weatherman , score helicopter .
okay , we have two injuries , two back injuries .
we are transporting the first one right now to ensenada .
weatherman .
could you contact operations , advise the hospital ?
we have a spectator hit by motorcycle , no pulse .
so we need immediate transfer .
i heard somebody saying they had a spectator with no pulse .
i have no comeback on that yet .
weatherman , that' s affirmative .
26 . 9 , spectator hit by motorcycle , no pulse .
okay , this is an emergency .
stand by , everybody .
spectator hit by a motorcycle at 26 . 9 , no pulse .
rescue one , rescue one . do you copy ?
helicopter 0 830 .
eta approximately 17 minutes , 1 7 minutes .
score helicopter , copy weatherman .
we copy , weatherman we' il be on our way there .
it' s gonna be ...
boy .
it' s gonna be an eta of probably about 20 minutes or so .
weatherman .
i don' t know what to do at this time .
the spectator that died wasn' t hit by anyone in the race or any vehicle in the race , but by another spectator on a motorcycle going the wrong way on the course .
my biggest fear is not me tearing up the truck , me getting hurt , it' s me killing some kid , me swapping out and going into the group of people or some guy pulling a truck out and i bounce off of him and kill these people that weren' t doing anything .
but why quit what you love for a situation ?
you don' t quit driving on the road because somebody gets in a car accident and dies .
i mean , i' m not gonna stop flying because of 9/ 11 .
do i feel anguish for it ?
yeah .
i don' t ever want that , or want that for anybody .
but i can' t stop my life because of it .
they don' t understand .
i don' t understand .
i just do it .
i just do it .
the weatherman knows death is neither fair nor just , and there' s nothing to do but to go back to work .
i was concerned that he had checked out , to make sure he' s all right or are there other problems .
everything will be fine .
great .
brian passes along a thank you to you .
fortunately there would be no more fatalities .
jetboat , greg tracy , mace , and his son chad were on a mission .
they wanted to get to race mile 205 and set up pits in plenty of time for mouse , who was now in third place .
do i hear a bike ?
i hear a bike .
no , i hear a tractor .
ricky johnson , slated to race that night in a protruck , stopped on by to see if he could help .
he' s a mile and a half out .
coming up on five ...
coming up on five minutes .
so we got two more minutes to sweat .
senior mccoy seemed nervous , although he denied it at every turn .
that' s a good look , greg .
he' s trying to go for that whole retro , " i' m chillin ' , i' m not nervous " look .
and the e. m. erin' s man .
but they know nothing other than a married man would ever wear that .
could mean every chick' s man .
don' t put that in the film .
that' s him .
that' s it , that' s it .
ricky johnson decided to pitch in and give jetboat a hand .
as i' m doing the tire change , he' s in my ear going ,
slower' s faster , slower' s faster .
and that just gave me chills .
a seven time national champion , a hero , a god to a lot of people , is helping me do a tire change .
they didn' t ?
no , you' re 13 miles up to the honda pit .
i feel good , bro .
i' m having fun .
relax .
you got a thousand miles to go ride .
you need to just relax and chill .
no , i' m good , i' m good .
don' t try to win this .
i' m not .
i' m not .
see you guys at 319 .
you know , he' s giving me the answer that i wanna hear .
i watched him take off .
you know , i say a prayer .
you know , we go down to mexico as a band of brothers .
the baja is a family affair passed down from one generation to another .
my dad always talked about baja 1000 , baja this , baja that .
wow , that' d be neat , you know ?
you know , i had a real tight family and we rode motorcycles , we surfed .
my father suddenly passed when i was 16 , at a point in time where a boy kind of needs some direction and stuff .
and my mom was there and she saw that we wanted to race , and so she supported us .
before , it was honda , factory .
and so we used to run it up and down , do all the pits ourselves .
so it was fun .
in mexico , johnny campbell is the hero .
even more than the charismatic robby gordon , it' s campbell' s posters that can be found from tijuana to cabo san lucas .
he takes this responsibility seriously as he' s very aware of the impact his heroes had on him as a kid .
you are his idol .
yeah ?
you know , sometimes you just gotta step out of the element for a little bit , think about what' s really going on .
so , you know , i thought the best thing i could do is just give the kid a jersey .
it' s not a replica or something that can be bought in a store .
it' s the real thing , a johnny campbell race jersey .
johnny campbell' s a good man .
his father would be proud .
his mother is .
women in general have had a big impact in baja , including this year , with the bc 10 , an all woman team comprised of the wives and daughters of other racers .
we were kind of on the sidelines last year , and all the guys were out there racing .
and we kind of all looked at each other and we' re like ,
why are we standing here ?
why aren' t we out there racing ?
my sister raced , my mother raced .
they had enough girls at that time where they raced a class that was called powder puff .
and they would race after the guys raced in whatever cars were left over , and go out and race each other .
by the time i came along , they just didn' t have that anymore , and i was determined i was gonna race .
and here i am , still racing .
all of us know that we have to get the car to the next one .
and , you know , to finish first , you have to first finish .
i think also women have this image of not being good drivers .
but we always tell people on the tours that the women tend to do better than the men because we don' t have quite that ego behind us ,
like something to prove .
exactly .
women will ask for directions .
a lot of times you' re taken as a joke until you go out and show that you' re not a joke .
you know , you' re taken very lightly .
call bca and tell them we' re on their ass .
i' il hit ' em when i have to .
okay .
the horn was my job .
as soon as we were getting close to someone , that was my job , to hit the horn , warn ' em , and bekki sure rammed ' em .
okay .
i think they must know i' m here .
oh , yeah .
we all have someone that we' re competing against that we' re related to .
and i think that' s pretty uncommon , that a family can come together and support each other even though they' re competing against one another .
we started off bonding when they were just that high by skiing together .
but what it really does is that it makes you friends .
and if you' re friends you have respect , and that makes for a great family .
i' ve always had that competitive edge to hopefully beat my husband out there , so that' d be nice .
actually having my wife compete in the event this year meant more than i ever thought it would .
she' s happier , healthier , she' s more just full of herself .
bob sutton putting together the girls ' team happens to be one of the biggest moves that i' ve had in my little career down here .
families compete as well as friends .
when the honda helicopter informed steve hengeveld that his lead had been cut in half .
steve didn' t even ask why .
he knew his friend andy grider had gotten on the bike .
andy , steve , and johnny had been teammates the previous year on the honda a team .
he was one of the defending champs .
it' s probably the highest notch on my wall right now , besides being a father , you know .
it' s right under being a father .
a corporate decision bumped andy from the a team just two weeks before the race .
he and his father neil were headed home when chris blaze asked if he wanted to race on the honda b team .
it' s not about the race .
it' s about being down here , having fun , being with your family .
when i say family , i mean the whole community of off road racing .
and once i figured it out , everything started clicking and the race just went smooth from there .
it doesn' t matter if you' re racing off road or playing the piano , you try , you give your best to life .
and when you have a son that does that , it brings me to tears sometimes .
i mean , i was so proud of him .
andy and neil had a plan ... prove the folly of leaving andy off the a team .
they wanted to lead the race , not just on time , but physically , so they would be making first dust .
through checkpoint four , andy had been reeling steve in .
the once four minute lead had shrank to 30 seconds .
it took me probably 50 , 60 miles for my arms to loosen up .
but in that time i was catching steve .
i could see the helicopter getting closer and closer and then all of a sudden i was in his dust .
okay , just take it easy .
let the pit strategy get you in the lead and see what happens after that .
if the rear tire holds , the impossible can be achieved and andy will be at the front of the entire baja 1000 field .
it' s 22 on the highway .
there' s about a 30 second split between 1 x and 11 x.
knowing that andy had started behind him ,
steve has no choice except to pin it .
and that' s gonna tear his tire up , which is okay with him because he knows he' s getting a new tire at this pit .
what he didn' t know was that we were running a different tire compound .
front wheel okay , steve ?
yeah .
gas only !
gas only !
gas only !
gas only !
go !
11 x , 1 : 05 : 55 .
30 seconds apart .
1 x is right behind him .
andy didn' t only wanna take the lead , he wanted to keep it .
the first place he led was the last place he wanted to ... the silt beds , where a motorcycle can be swallowed whole .
he took a center line , held it wide open , and prayed .
while andy headed for the coast as fast as he could go ,
johnny took the perfect line .
he knew where every nook was and every cranny .
as luck would have it , one of the few witnesses of this race was the man who cut andy from the honda a team .
he' s riding in that helicopter .
while the course is marked , there is sometimes certain creativity , although you do run the risk of missing a checkpoint because the checkpoints are kept secret .
a lot of racing down here is doing your homework .
part of baja is a lot of free running .
i had some alternate ways and lines and stuff , and if i had to use them i would .
at the top of the screen is andy' s dust cloud .
for johnny , it' s like a red cape to a bull .
he' s flat out at 110 miles an hour .
one kelp pocket or tide washout , and his day ends in a heartbeat .
andy holds his lead .
miles later , johnny tries it again .
coming up on the left hand side of the screen ,
andy grider neck and neck with johnny campbell .
andy holds the lead and will all the way to the highway .
today is his day .
by this point in the race ,
andy had battled the 1 x bike for over 200 miles .
it seemed beyond comprehension .
neil had set up andy' s pit 12 miles down the road from the honda a team .
for johnny , this was the end of the race .
steve would ride the next 350 miles to the finish .
get mark with the oil .
tell mark we need oil .
oil .
andy was finished as well .
chuck dempsey would take over the bike .
we' re probably gonna need to patch it at both ends .
hey , my radio ain' t working .
i can' t hear bruce for some reason .
steve was off .
he had 12 miles of pavement before he hit new dust .
go !
let' s go , let' s go !
go !
good job , good job .
make some dust !
make some dust , buddy !
make some dust , chuck !
clear it out , clear it out .
go , go , go !
steve hengeveld , the best night racer in the world , was flat out .
trying valiantly .
chuck dempsey could not close the gap .
but it didn' t matter .
because for an afternoon ,
andy grider had accomplished the impossible .
i' ve had what i would consider a few moments that i felt greatness when i raced .
a lot of people , if you ask them ... if you say , " okay , break it down .
what was your best race ?
and it might not be they won , but they had a moment that you' re so present in everything that' s happening ... flawless and effortlessly .
and outside is utter chaos , but that chaos is around ' em , and they' re sitting in the middle of the tornado , the eye of the storm .
you make a correction before a reaction starts .
they' re not scared , they' re not afraid .
they don' t think they can be hurt .
you don' t have time to be afraid .
afraid' s afterward .
you know , it' s like ...
man , i just avoided death once again .
a father and his son .
an icon and his legacy .
a epic race witnessed mostly by cactus .
no tv , no adoring crowds , just the clarity of the moment .
a clarity that can give a racer a greater appreciation of place and of people .
a awareness of the give and take , the golden rule .
for six time champion malcolm smith , giving back is more important than any victory .
one of malcolm' s favorite things to do is to visit a little community just outside of trinidad .
he and his son alex bring their bikes and buggies and give the local kids a thrill .
how can i give back to baja some of the enjoyment i' ve had ?
we started donating time and effort and money about eight years ago here .
they only had a little bit of one house done when we first started here .
no , it' s really fun .
we come down here every year and i' ve been seeing kids here for eight years now .
and it' s kind of nice to come down here and see ' em over and over again .
two days after we filmed this ,
malcolm , alex , and a dozen of alex' s classmates poured the foundation for a library to be built right there on turn four .
the kids truly appreciate the time and attention the smiths give them .
being orphans , they know it' s not always available .
they are all from mexicali , tijuana , ensenada .
and we have a few from the local town , valle de trinidad .
it brings tears to my eyes thinking of these kids being abandoned on the streets of mexico , and now to think what they have here and what opportunities they have here .
to me that' s the most important thing about malcolm .
he wants to be here .
he wants to feel what it' s to be with our kids and , you know , spend some times and , you know , give them some joy , not only the bunk beds they receive , not only the water pump they receive , or all the things they have because of malcolm smith .
i learned lessons from ' em , like you can never quit down here
' cause if you do , it' s a major problem for you .
you can never quit on any race ,
' cause then , i mean , somebody else might have the same problem you do and they might quit .
but if you don' t quit , you might win .
among the original baja racers , giving back is an unspoken tradition .
baja has a magic to me .
i can be kind of sick and have a backache and come down here and ride my motorcycle and be free , and i feel better right away .
i mean , the farther you get away from the civilization on these really back roads , the more the magic is .
the back roads of baja are endless .
and a beauty can be found in the most unusual places .
take coco' s corner , a kingdom built from what' s been left behind ... old beer cans and bent motorcycle frames ,
the unexplainable , the bizarre , and the long forgotten .
this is a place where a man' s dream only needs one leg to kick reality' s rear .
of course .
coco wouldn' t tell you anything like that .
because for him .
this is just his place . and everybody is invited .
okay , you can go inside and camping , please .
yes , this is free .
i no charge nobody .
fifteen years ago , coco was a valet in ensenada when a car accident took his leg .
soon after , bound to a wheelchair , his supposed friends took his self worth .
i wanna stay in ensenada .
and everybody , he close .
he said , " you too old , you sick .
so that' s why i come here .
that' s why i open this place 13 years , seven ...
so .
coco' s corner is a ticked off plan b.
buy a little campground just outside of nowhere where the 1000 races past every now and then , and in time , the pre runners and pit crews stop by , and coco has ' em sign this book .
write or draw , as long as you make your mark .
coco has created an off road oasis , a kingdom where nothing is disposable , and the only thing that outnumber the beer cans are his friends .
how are you , my friend ?
good to see you .
thank you coming back again .
while he' s never competed in the race ,
coco embodies the spirit of the baja 1000 .
good luck , everybody .
baja has a wonderful way of just grabbing ahold of you .
and you' re just lookin ' around going , " wow .
where' s all this coming from ?
you know ?
actually , we have stopped just to look around .
they battle a peninsula ,
a place between the old west and the twilight zone .
they challenge it not for money or fame , but for simple bragging rights .
during the second world war ,
president roosevelt turned to the mexican government and said , " we want to put guns along the coastline
to protect ourselves from the japanese .
could we not put a little paved road down the length of baja ?
well , mexico is neutral , so they said no .
so that was the end of that .
just imagine if they' d put in a paved road the length ... if they had said yes .
maybe we wouldn' t be sitting here .
there wouldn' t be any off road racing .
a little water for ya .
i ain' t getting my truck all dirty and scratched up .
what the hell' s wrong with these people ?
they' re getting all hot now .
they' re getting splashed all with water on their face .
it' s a long , tough day .
race for an afternoon in the baja , and you' il have a year' s worth of stories .
at least , that' s the case for mike and robby groff and indy car champion jimmy vasser .
vasser has a relationship with the groffs a lot like larry fine had with moe and curly howard .
twenty five minutes , and he said ,
for sure i knew it was robby gordon , you know ?
and when he finally caught and passed , it was like a truck full of mexicans going , " go !
go !
go !
my earliest memory of the groff brothers was in columbus , ohio , at the grand nationals in 1974 .
at eight years old , he was already a stud , and he has this leather racing jacket , and he has this patch with wile e. coyote holding the roadrunner by his neck , and it said " beep beep my ass .
and i said , " i gotta know this guy .
and here we are .
last year' s 1000 was their debut as a team .
a series of problems led to vasser getting in the car at sunset while the light bar was still a hundred miles away .
and i jumped in the car with no lights , and the sun was going down , no moon or nothing .
you know , like a toyota pickup ...
looked like they were inebriated ... were honking their horn at me trying to go around .
that' s how slow i was going .
and i' m in the race , right ?
and eventually , we found a stop , and i borrowed two lights off of the paraplegic israeli team ,
i swear to you .
but he said , " i' il give you that one and that one .
so i got ' em and i rigged ' em on the front .
i had two lights to go like a hundred miles , and with no front brakes , i might add .
i had to have a lear jet pick me up .
i had to abandon the race .
i had a lear jet pick me up in the bay of l. a. on a dirt strip
' cause i had to get back to this cart banquet .
they wouldn' t let me get out of it .
otherwise , they wasn' t gonna give me the prize money for the season .
it was a nightmare .
i slept in the runway and in , you know , the desert .
i started reminiscing .
i started looking back , thinking about it and started telling stories to my friends , what happened .
i thought , " i had a great time .
you know ?
i finally realized .
took a couple months for me to figure it out ...
i had a great time .
unfortunately , this 1000 would give the groffs and vasser many more stories .
electrical problems ended their day before the sun set .
others had problems , too , like mouse mccoy who got a flat tire and had to ride on it for 40 miles to get a spare .
still , he forged ahead , mile after mile .
eleven hours straight at that kind of pace ... physically , yeah , it' s tough , but more so mentally .
' cause you don' t wanna make a mistake , especially at night , you know .
they might find you the next day .
so it just ... really , mentally just wears you down .
is that ...
that' s him , that' s him !
reaching the halfway point of the race , mouse is greeted by jetboat and crew , plus andy and neil grider who waited to see how he was doing .
hey , you' re okay .
you' re fine .
i got a flat coming off the beach .
i had to ride for 40 something miles till i got up to catavena , and then i scrounged a wheel off some dudes .
i' m having a little bit of problems with my hands , greg .
yeah .
they' re really like this .
they' re locked up , man .
fresh gloves and goggles if you want ' em .
yeah , i need a fresh ...
you' re not far back .
eight came through here not long ago .
who ?
eight , and 449 just passed a minute ago .
they did ?
yeah .
a minute ago .
i' il get ' em back .
hey , i lost like 45 minutes .
i was third overall , back ... gonna pass the guy .
started what , 16th ?
or something like that .
and i was gonna pass the four ... or third overall .
i was ...
you' il get ' em in the woods .
you' il get ' em in the woods .
i' il get ' em in the woods .
but i' m feelin ' it .
you' re doing a huge accomplishment .
take ... keep yourself hydrated and take it easy .
you' re doing great .
i was in third , neil , almost .
i know .
that' s okay .
you' re doing fine .
then that flat , dude .
you' il get it back .
he' s right up there .
don' t worry .
it' s only half over .
i know .
mouse remembers something important to tell andy .
i had to ride for 40 something miles till i got up to catavena , and then i scrounged a wheel off some dudes .
i' il get ' em back .
hey , i lost like 45 minutes .
i was third overall , back ... gonna pass the guy .
he' s telling you a story .
he was a click out of delirious .
bike' s running , he' s telling you a story .
it was great .
wait , i got four more seconds .
i have a great story .
you' re gonna love this one .
the pit crews are the backbone of the baja 1000 ... guys like jetboat .
i was on indy car teams for years ...
arceiro' s .
at indy , changing a tire close to the wall with a car coming in at 120 , your adrenaline' s pumping for about 15 seconds , and then it leaves , you' re done .
this race , just all the planning and preparation and wondering where mouse is at , your adrenaline' s pumping for about 24 hours .
and it' s just the most amazing high that you can ever be on in your life .
while jetboat chases mouse , others wait for their racers .
these are the pit crews of the big money unlimited classes .
their surroundings are like a gearhead xanadu , and they live like firemen , ready whenever for whatever .
we may drive by and just wave and say , " hey , thanks for being here .
but if we need something , they' re there .
you could not be a mechanic workin ' full time in the racing business if you didn' t love it .
and they just ... you know , it' s almost an addiction .
you' re coming down here , the truck' s only gonna be here for like 40 seconds .
done , and we' re done .
no , we' re packing up .
you gotta find something to do .
drove all this way , you gotta do something .
idle hands can be the devil' s playthings .
oh , my god !
the pit crews are forced to amuse themselves for hours on end .
as night falls , a full 25 % of the field has dropped out , and many pit crews ' jobs are just beginning .
but for jimmy roberts , his day is over .
he' s gotten his team back into the top ten .
get off .
your work is done .
good job , bro .
greg , my dad crashed .
greg tracy would take over the bike , and take it the next 300 miles into the night .
it' s only half over .
and greg' s a hell of a night rider .
if my dad' s there , i' m sure he' il take it in at the end , but if he' s not , he' s gonna have to ride it in .
good job , man .
yeah .
good job , brother .
thanks , man .
give me your helmet .
jetboat and crew are headed back to ensenada with one obstacle .
the first 15 miles of their trek back was on a live course .
they were going 50 miles a hour headed north ,
while coming at them were trophy trucks at 140 miles a hour .
and their lights are so bright , you can' t see .
and those roads are so tight that you literally have to just close your eyes .
jesus .
and it' s like a spaceship passing on the road .
around dusk , the first automobile in the race , alan pflueger , pulled into the pits .
his front end was coming off .
they tried welding everything to it ... wrenches , golf clubs , whatever it would take .
forty five long minutes later , after being passed by five different cars ,
pflueger' s day had turned for the worst .
but the hawaiian kept an even keel and remained positive .
down the road , robby gordon pulled into his pits
like a tornado pulling into a trailer park .
his crew looked ready to run screaming into the night , but robby' s not the kind of guy to stand back and whine at people .
he jumps right in there , busting his knuckles and shouting at the top of his lungs .
it' s the kind of insane intensity you can' t help but admire .
off went robby raging into the night , playing the beast to the beauty of the all woman team .
they' d been in first place in their class until their transmission failed ,
leaving them stranded in the pits ,
looking far too clean , too cute , and too composed .
when do you guys think you' il be pulling back into ensenada ?
as the night progresses , things just get weirder .
the crowds don' t dwindle but increase .
they come in droves .
the later it gets , the more people show up .
it' s 4 : 30 in the morning .
we' re off in the middle ...
we' re nowhere near any road , and people are out there , you know , with their coolers , their little barbecue , a little fire going , cheering you on all night long .
since elementary school , our families took us there .
so it' s very , very important for us that people still are waiting for us .
we have a lot of good reactions , like the jeep ... they make like bets .
is it gonna make it ?
is it not gonna make it ?
and once we get there , they start like celebrating and stuff , and they really pump you up , you keep going .
the volkswagen is painfully far behind ,
which for them is right on schedule .
meanwhile , at the other end of the race ,
mouse , amazingly , was still going strong .
scott dunlavey was now in charge of his pits , and he brought with him racing legend eddie mulder to surprise mouse .
just trying to keep him focused , you know .
he was very tired at that point .
got some food in him , and got some liquids in him .
and , you know , he' s complaining about his hands .
we were third overall , and i got a flat out on the beach .
i' ve been trying to gather those guys back up for a while , man .
i was pretty bummed out , ' cause first of all , 40 miles on a rear flat .
push it to third overall , man .
you' re rockin ' , dude .
you' re rockin ' .
i know .
i feel strong , but my wrists go numb .
they just lock up .
that' s my issue right now .
if i could shake that flat off ...
you know , it works your brain over ...
i had to slow down .
hey i lost like 45 minutes .
i was third overall , back ... gonna pass the guy .
go get ' em , mouse .
dunlavey and mulder will chase mouse on his journey to the finish line .
he' s a little wrung out , huh ?
yeah , he' s a little ... he' s pinging .
on mount diablo , the temperature dropped to freezing and the wind was blowing 50 miles an hour .
all hell was breaking loose .
the nearby observatory started to complain about the light that was leaking from the weatherman' s tent , threatening to ruin experiments that had been going on for a quarter century .
so the weatherman put his assistant on the 30 gallon trash bag duty .
meanwhile , robby gordon' s day continued to unravel .
why is robby stopping here ?
because he ran out of gas like half a mile back .
we' ve got one pissed off driver .
and we' re hoping that he stops .
and if he doesn' t , we' re gonna have to chase him to the next pit .
it hasn' t been a good day .
rob , how many you want ?
tell ' em it' s pump gas only .
tim , it' s pump gas only .
no !
get it out .
don' t put that stuff into my car .
get out of the way !
ready to go .
you got 30 miles left .
again , robby disappeared into the darkness , joining a long list of things to be feared in the baja night .
when you' re a little kid , and the coat rack turns into the monster , you know there' s something under your bed .
well , when you' re in baja and on a motorcycle by yourself , there is , you know .
you' re driving at night when you see a forest of cactus .
i mean , they' re absolutely just flying by you , and these things look like they' re alive .
they look like they' re talking to you , you know ?
i went to go the bathroom , so i left the car running , and then my ears were starting to hurt .
and then i saw like a light .
and i told this kid , " check out this light .
it' s like a flying saucer or something .
you' re full of it .
but it was a real one , you know ?
very close ... like a block , you know , from here .
but he was very , very , very scared .
and i was , too , yeah .
strange lights can be disconcerting .
no lights can be downright depressing .
that' s what happened to andy mcmillin , with his lead so great , that when engine problems slowed him , he checked the rearview and didn' t see a flicker .
and then they got disoriented out there and thought maybe that they were lost .
and we got on the radio with him and said , " andy , just put trust into your gps .
good job .
got a left here .
kind of funky on this side .
all right !
weatherman , 6 7 , you are breaking up .
okay .
you' re the most important guy on the course right now .
the storm atop mount diablo seemed to engulf the whole peninsula , the epicenter now located at the aptly named zoo road .
clear the road !
get out of the way !
weatherman , copy .
just confirmed san felipe .
weatherman ...
we have a fire that started .
nobody knows how ...
he' s onto the right course .
some people have changed the course markers , leading people astray .
score , copy , weatherman .
we are in the helicopter with a doctor onboard .
i need somebody to respond to me .
when mouse hit pit 11 , he didn' t talk about the usual 40 miles he' d spent getting another tire or how he' d been in third place overall .
instead he had a very specific question .
how far ahead was the bike in front of him ?
that was third place .
i' m gonna get back to my goal , which was being on the podium .
i really wanted to get on the podium solo .
he had about 30 miles up in the mountains , came back down , picked up like three spots .
hauling ass .
i mean , here' s a guy that' s blowing bubbles , and he just picked off two guys who were fresh .
through checkpoint 12 ,
mouse was only 60 miles away from the finish line in ensenada .
he was about to make the impossible possible .
broken ribs , slight shoulder separation , broken finger .
in danger of being run over , mouse crawled to the shoulder .
baja has a way of educating you .
push that edge that far down there , and you' re done .
it was around 5 : 00 in the morning when robby gordon ,
who' d stayed in the race on sheer fury , finally had to admit defeat .
if we were to continue down to the big bumps we were at in san felipe , we' d basically break the back half of the truck off with it slamming as hard as it was slamming .
we made a unanimous decision to load the thing on the trailer , and that was probably one of the hardest things to do , especially all the hard work that the whole team put into getting to the baja 1000 .
if you can' t win , you at least wanna finish .
and this year' s 1000 we didn' t finish .
a driver will often work up to eight hours to get back in the race .
when he sees the trailer , it' s a feeling of embarrassment and emptiness .
why do they do it ?
it' s not ' cause you' re crazy or you got a death wish .
it' s competition .
fighters don' t fight to hurt people , they fight to win .
racers don' t race because they wanna die .
they wanna go fast .
that' s my high .
that' s the way i manipulate my life , is through mechanics of a machine .
off road racing is chasing rainbows .
it' s not like indianapolis where if you did something , you' d get something for it .
all you' re doing down here is just endangering yourself for the glory .
when you first start racing , the first thing you wanna do is to win a race .
then you wanna win a championship .
then you wanna win the baja 1000 .
you want all these things .
and then there' s gonna be some day when you' re probably gonna win your last race .
probably five or six miles from the end i kept thinking ,
gosh , i wish it would go on .
you know , ' cause i don' t want it to come to an end .
gimme another mile .
gimme another half mile .
i want this feeling just a little bit longer , you know .
by race' s end , 27 vehicles will have placed first in their individual classes .
but only one will be fastest overall .
this is the domain of legends like stewart , roeseler , smith , and evans .
and this year' s winner belonged to that company .
approaching the baseball stadium , his name being announced for the seventh year in a row , with a time of 15 hours , 39 minutes , and 52 seconds ...
i wanna introduce to you the motorcycle champion for the baja 1000 ...
steve hengeveld and johnny campbell .
steve .
until you experience it , you can' t really explain it ' cause it' s just so great .
it has so much mystery and experiences and the stories we get out of it , and it' s a lifetime of experience , each and every one .
the second fastest motorcycle was the honda b team that included andy grider .
john gregory was fastest on the quad .
the fastest on four wheels was the class 1 buggy of doug fortin , while ryan arceiro crossed the line with the quickest trophy truck .
but the most impressive story on four wheels was that of 16 year old andy mcmillin , a high school junior who' d just gotten his license three months earlier .
andy finished second in class and sixth overall ... the most impressive debut since robby gordon 18 years earlier .
i' m proud of ya .
you did a great job .
great job .
thanks for everything , you guys .
what a great family .
honor to have you guys with us , it really is .
i had a friend tell me today that in baja , if you' re dumb , you better be tough .
having survived 300 miles with a faulty headlight ,
greg tracy' s arrival meant j. n. was back on the bike .
well , if we get third , we' il be good .
well , whatever we get .
dude , we had no friggin ' lights .
jimmy didn' t need to worry because his dad had been within two blocks of the stadium for quite a while .
he couldn' t find the entrance .
when he did make it , victory towel wrapped around his neck , just like the old days , well , it was 1967 all over again .
but that' s what happened the first time , so that' s only fitting .
some things are timeless .
there he is standing there , you know , 30 years later .
he had that smile , and you could feel the excitement of there he was , you know , at the finish line of the 1000 .
and gosh , again , he could be anyplace in the world and doing anything he wants to do .
and there he is .
you can get your social security check now .
a little past 5 : 00 in the morning , the number 227 of matt and steve scaroni collected the win in the protruck class .
after a dozen tries , the father and son team had finally done it .
they give a lot of the credit to the third driver , ricky johnson .
you fall back to the little kid in the underwear and the six guns and the cowboy hat .
you' re a cowboy .
at sunrise , two thirds of those cowboys were still out in the course , some as far back as the halfway point ,
like number 806 of todd wyilie and mark julius , who' d had a rotten night .
they' d lost a transmission , lost a front end , simply got lost , but could not lose jethro the know it all .
you never finished a 100 mile race , you never finished a 500 mile race .
come down here , how' s he gonna finish a 1, 000 mile race ?
mark julius , in an attempt to lose his publicist jethro , was off and running .
and then a funny thing happened .
a race broke out for 195th place .
the buggy' s race strategy was hard to figure .
after closing a half mile gap in a matter of minutes , he simply locked onto the rear bumper and stayed there as if hypnotized .
and the one chance he had to make a pass , he saw open air , and it scared the hell out of him .
he went right back to his happy place .
after hitting the straightaway , the buggy couldn' t keep pace with julius and the truck .
and where it had taken 20 hours to finish the first half of the race , it only took him a mere eight hours to come into the finish .
julius and wyilie had done it .
where' s my key ?
we made it .
we made it .
a thousand miles .
buddy .
good job , mark .
best adventure of my life .
thank you , sir .
i couldn' t begin to tell ya .
the dreams will come true , man .
where do we go from here ?
rewarded with a pin , finishers celebrate all day long , hour after hour as the clock ticks down to the 32 hour time limit .
in spite of being denied a record breaking 10th overall baja 1000 ,
mark mcmillin crossed the finish line with a big grin on his face .
told ya i' d make it back for ya .
you did .
you stayed true to your word .
no , we don' t give up .
we don' t give up .
proving that even rich handsome guys don' t give up ,
alan pflueger crossed the line with a big aloha smile .
it was up front .
it was up front .
see that .
then the front broke off .
hawaiians never quit .
that' s true .
same hula gal , or did you replace the hula gal ?
no , same hula girl .
gotta get her a new grass skirt , but that' s all right .
yeah , i like this one .
kind of had to do some testing on this thing .
the ukulele ones last .
the other ones lose their arms , so it' s all good .
although there are many examples of baja' s never say die spirit , few have as good a time as the off road version of the terminator ...
al hogan .
you' il be able to find pieces of his truck all the way back to the starting line .
nothing left but his pride and his sense of the obvious .
tired , man .
what can you say ?
that' s baja .
sometimes the course wins .
we only got 364 more days till the next one , right ?
one after the other , they would cross the line , dusty and tired , but overjoyed they finished .
as the day wore on , there were still many on the course .
amy thomas searched for the bc 10 , which was still a hundred miles out , headed for home in a race against the clock .
and only seconds behind the women' s team came eric solorzano' s volkswagen bouncing up the goat trail outside of trinidad , hoping to finish , just to finish .
while the volkswagen wouldn' t make it , the women' s team would , with ten minutes to spare .
it was mouse' s drive to finish that had us worried the night before .
we decided to send helmet cameraman louis franco out to find him , hoping he' d bring him back .
mouse was up , but not in the best condition .
lucky for him , jeff kaplan happened by .
i just saw him out of my peripheral vision .
he told me that the next place i could see somebody , tell ' em that he was stuck there .
and i just told him to follow me in .
but we ended up going fast .
really fast .
surprisingly fast for one light .
at speeds near a hundred miles an hour ,
kaplan paced mouse for over 20 miles until finding scott dunlavey .
the motorcycle' s junk .
i beat the thing into submission so it was at least halfway rideable .
he' s goofy , he doesn' t even know if it' s left or right .
he' d hit the wall , he' d pushed through the wall and kept going and going and going and got bit .
and now it was a matter to get back to some sort of semblance of focus to get to bring it all the way home .
mouse mccoy ... 18 hours , 2 minutes , 40 seconds .
the sixth motorcycle to finish , the twelfth overall vehicle .
not too bad .
there were 246 vehicles behind him .
there' s a connection between people who make a commitment , a passion shared .
you let me ride side by side all the way to ojos , man .
i' il never forget you .
you got me there .
this wasn' t just a solo effort .
it might' ve been a solo effort as far as me being in the saddle , but the collective effort was about my friends and family carrying me through it , and that' s why it means so much to me , that we all did it together .
congratulations .
yeah , congratulations .
thank you , guys , for letting us in your country to race here .
hey , anybody know where a good taco stand is ?
a cold beer ?
a cold beer and a taco is what i need .
i haven' t eaten much today .
it' s a hell of a race .
a race against the clock in a country that defies time , in a competition which forges lifelong friendships .
maybe only one drives , but they search for glory as a team .
they look for it in the win , in the finish , and in the attempt , because the journey can justify the destination .
in one word , the baja 1000 for me is ... love .
it' s romantic .
it' s awesome .
tough .
exciting .
a challenge .
perseverance .
tough .
patience .
a lot of patience .
it' s beautiful .
for me , it' s just adventure .
i mean , it' s such an adventure .
well , i got a different word , now that i' m thinking about it .
it' s more mystical .
it is mystical .
it has a sense and a spirit of its own .
i think it' s just life .
in one day , you kind of get to experience everything .
you get great things happen and terrible things happen , and it' s how you deal with ' em at the end of the night .
it' s like life .
a thousand miles and 32 hours can be a lifetime in a blink .
do they find glory ?
i couldn' t say , because the race never ends .
but if they do , it' s in the dust , and it won' t wash away .
what it is , it' s like a flying couch .
you know ?
that is probably the best way to explain it .
it' s like sitting in your living room .
yeah , it is a living room and a flying couch and just stay out of the big ditches .
my buddy , here' s my buddy steve matzinger .
yeah , baby .
oh , yeah .
baja !
he really wants to make the cut .
i wanna be in the movie !
he' s not gonna be on the movie .
i wanna be in the big pictures .
baja !
and as soon as we turned off the little light on the generator , we saw the ... thought the floor was moving .
we turned it on , and it was solid cockroaches .
i was , like , " oh , my god .
so i ran out to my pack and got a gallon of gas and ran a moat around my pack .
and me and bob , we had to sleep in the same bed .
i said , " we' re probably gonna get asphyxiated , but at least we' re not gonna get eaten .
and in the morning there was a bunch of melted cockroaches .
i' m don .
i' m one of the sound mixers .
right now we' re making up cables , custom cables for each camera .
we' ve got one of don' s ...
what kind of mike is that ?
active ... a 48 volt mike , which is a supercardioid pattern .
check , check , check .
check , check , check one , two .
check on this side , right , check on left side .
check .
check .
when those motorcycles turn on , it' s loud .
loud !
we' re yelling right now because we' ve got a bunch of loud motorcycles back here .
so we' re just checking the levels , and see how they' re doing .
how' s that ?
these cameras have a lot of switches that need to be in the right places , we discovered .
right .
what would scorsese do ?
talk real fast .
we know that .
you know , joe pesci , he hit all these guys in the head with a shovel .
not bad .
not bad .
but where we gonna get joe pesci , let alone a shovel ?
editor ...
dana brown .
he' s trying to cover up matzinger , which i got it .
i still got ...
i can still make out matzinger .
do you mind ?
with the constant ... the constant paparazzi trip .
like a candid camera .
you know what you do ?
you can fix your hair in this thing .
hey , there' s a camera behind that big piece of glass .
dana' s crazy .
this is the biggest , craziest movie ever made .
ever .
sorry man , i' m just going , " whoa , i' m gonna knock that guy on his butt .
saw
yeah , well , you only missed him by about 12 inches .
yeah ?
what were you shooting , herr producer ?
we were shooting a little place called valle de trinidad .
see all that spit fly like that ?
yeah .
yeah .
that' s the effect that i have .
who said there wasn' t special effects on this movie ?
yeah , is that ...
is that you speaking spanish , spitting all over ?
that is .
it' s ...
this is the first time we' re going off roading .
so , driver ...
we' re attempting the off road race .
here we go .
off road .
and we' re off !
here we go , matzinger in the front .
good !
matzinger !
matzinger !
here we go !
safe at last .
i think we' re definitely trophy truck material now .
yeah .
robby gordon , we got your number .
