discontinuing .
come on go .
let .
forgiveness do not fine , thorough fare .
that on hand your .
ready to lieutenant .
bring us to chanel .
diametrical continue , make 5 knot yes package .
150 yards .
draw full of .
discontinuing machine captain .
discontinuing machine hold up gunfire . hold up gunfire rotation cover . rotation cover .
miss nocolo .
i is rohas .
this doctor of hopert halo like to come in contact with you please follow with l .
forgiveness about it .
late there is its eye thank you who is its name ?
kiwe ezib , most him in calling kiwe hi , my name of ziba
i is need see you of ok .
how long you have pain 2 day .
you have this recenly travel to mali , week yesterday .
with its father
where its father now he she at home dilite .
that where job activity him pressure above 50
damage blood .
do not fine , ofjust fine
do not fine .
do not fine .
you do not fine other mali such as those which i know .
this there is still there is 6 , still do not enough .
how many doing conducting him it ?
60 , 600
when that start him , tomorrow .
we have to find its source of franc .
you go to mali .
will not happened .
joe we will not lose staff again in action civil .
finishing your report . good , its moment for the autopsy of eba
i do conduct what i can do conduct .
i dedicate to council ofis official member of .
possibly will in listening is this . thank you .
we still need follow the example of blood of its father i find its father
halo .
sir of nocolo .
mr. nocolo .
you is there is no connection .
quickly call someone .
what you do not fine ?
let ok , desisting .
desist over there
let reach for that .
give that i need that .
over there
whether i need that thank you .
enough . goodness , we nicely forgiveness .
this , goodness .
effort good thank you .
welcome . goodness flame .
let .
hi , how do you do your , feel betterly yes thank you .
forgiveness , where us this of boat anna marta .
we ignore whom you , you is there is enigma of deceit yes
i have awaited 2 months to in this time .
don' t confuse by engulfing him it yes five , four , three two , one .
all present let i introduce at all of you . engagement which to 72 in sea floor .
good work . at the discretion of .
you think in two one .
where moment 93 .
you cannot operate concurrently . king of need people in museum .
ln 5 hour clock don' t worry package you have to .
hey who stand up . thank you at you i feel
you can lose your bag , town which is danger
i it is true losing of my bag .
do not aid need that of difficult question .
that which you wish hey you here become we can manage this .
forgiveness let come on hook correlate .
cleaning us there is party
admiral retired .
jim of sandecker i is rohas , i with that .
seems you need to drink coffee .
hey i need your aid .
don' t be last is same of times rill . peace , this make i mad
there is something about hare .
go to tree or something i will over there in one hour .
what ? that a few little is blur .
you predict possible find something .
ls nicely .
ls excrutiatingly thank you .
do not , excrutiatingly for me , i hold up to inform .
sandaker , you cannot in museum tonight , because your you moment in finding evidence in nigeria
or civil war , storm in afrika yes correctness .
that which you intend , right sandaker of fear .
see you will over there box will pursue hare around .
tree and under hole .
i inform , don' t worry i will over there
thank you many .
first of me wish thank you at this museum for this remarkable greeting .
i also wish thank you .
our supporter at this project .
thank you .
we is numa agent of marina and under state sea , and this .
all present what us do conduct .
king of bactine .
doggone .
constructively museum , and government . personal organization like us
can work is same to ascertain history .
history which have losed the the duration can return at its people thank you many , hopefully there is pleasant night .
you is there is cd player in your ship ?
yes , is same of love me at you .
i am there is good goods , is direct the than irak museum . don' t show our that unfavorable osahdy ok , do not .
very special goods .
which i discuss at you .
that solve my liver , just for showing at you .
where you find this money help .
we do not near that .
remarkable party thank you .
easiness is on me .
lf this moment which i inform at you . doctor of rolas hi .
i like like to come in contact with you .
this franc doctor of hopert how do you do ?
he she do conduct many business in afrika
even in mali .
permit of myself .
i understand you trust there is malian secretory .
we do not willing to spell out members plate . then what according to you ?
become you is have business to in mali .
you know who can assist us to send team .
you know , mali in control by general of kasim .
you recognize him yes , he she is colonel in mali .
lnnovate him become president .
he she one who can fight and he she control state ?
half , and the rest nothing there is no controlling to become is hard .
i have to commemorate that is you very danger
to find him i feel more danger to be is local . yes , your death will be ugly in newspaper become that plate .
goodness i will call people , but in is final of day i am only pebisnis .
peace tut super him in that .
he she will not assist us
this time wasted .
mali and civil war .
you know that .
admiral , you have seen gold dollar don' t start again of course do not .
because cannot make gold dollar .
myth fall to pieces in is final of war thank you .
don' t but previously there is making 5 example of .
you give 4 that example of .
at important general of him each time we come to afrika
we go to australia tomorrow follow the example of that in finding .
fifthly but have never .
that until family of davis . so called bright sea captain of homes .
captain of seass texas .
where you get this ?
earn from so called man of digway . all important of him find in mali .
that coin that coin in texas .
ln river of nizur unlikely .
will not succeed come on see about around .
cannot 3 day of admiral .
only 3 day conceive .
you will not hear word about this again .
you is there is 72 hour clock .
nothing there is no a few more .
you newly earn journey of boat .
you is real man , i is nonchalant of people spell out members about you i am there is bottle , spell out members make that case .
ok .
diaz you are is late .
i spell out members 9 who spell out members 8 .
i is sandiger telephone i am if there is problem .
to what end ?
he she wish to bring us of river , to mali what ?
do not , bring you to mali await .
there is fraction in mali , you will hit epidemik and you do not willing to follow dokter ?
cutting bag help is important . all of you do not enough appliance hope him do not .
dinghy . nothing there is no kerahasian i do not lose face .
you go come home ?
i am there is house in moneray , but have never lived in there what ? good diving over there
only that which you think of , diving do not .
sometime i think flower
ln river which have in finding under the sun .
below under their water shine , science now can explain why
surely there is reason . my theory is he she can do conduct him it , because enough come on go .
will become place which is keren .
ls middle , this where we have to go . precisely in civil war . you have pursued , doctor ?
do not with story of marlin again .
733 pound .
5 half hour in fight chair . he she said 600 pound .
where you get that , i cannot remind any .
how long all of you with since .
tk , navy , he she always become my shadow .
i have never become navy .
nicely dock .
my custody ok , friend thank you .
your friend of al , informing i am about captain .
and its boat oh he she spell out members , yeah .
he she also spell out members , do not in making for the cross of ocean so also people , tequila ?
you find coin ?
i am only taking coin .
i find coin .
and i also there is letter for captain .
searching its husband in west .
there is seaman bringing epistle far from afrika 2 mile .
man kinds of what taking ship like that .
ocean meyebrang .
why ? how ?
i ignore i will look for soybean cake .
i like people ask that stiff , matter start to become slimmerly .
this surely nicely .
to have this .
any is which have happened at me happened at water .
altogether
let assist i herewith .
hold up , you get that ?
here you are how long ?
6 do not the problem of you remain llama do not .
this also according to you will be peaceful do not fine .
we go now do not the problem of . do not the problem of do not .
hear i again think , this finish .
place which i know so calledly of monerey .
have never heard that do not ?
oh there is beautiful coast .
sand like gold , that paradisiacal place
ls heard nicely yes
i also there is woman
house over there , and he she is pecandu of alcohol .
he she have never at home , i ask him . will not fine if you stop by .
can bring friend .
you do not have to ask him i have .
you have , intended your to moneray .
teimakasih for the anything of sama2 lucky hopefully .
how do you do miss ?
mr. endigway , a woman
lndigway he she find this one month then .
you know , i do not too super in linguist , but that do not be heard nicely .
dead lndigway .
yes , hey its cheque what its cheque ?
my father collect historic coin , of cina roma
yaman , rusia , some ending in box in new jersey .
lts meaning journey of coin . man of kasihana that above the ground nothing there is no its ithim
yes but its ithim walk from an place .
except him walk rear lumba2 .
i guess a little a few little in coastal coastal area .
you can can see , iron in that river , my intention really .
what we more miss in coast of virginia
correctness ?
halo .
come on i sound its bell
how ? do not .
i am there is its cheque , don' t worry about it , i are is serious .
i know i will get every time , peace i earn its cheque
asamualikum walaikum greeting .
darkshy , my name of derk .
i look for boat .
and when we will see this boat .
about around 148 last year , in 1866 .
that moment of labasanga is richest people in afrika again , we use advantage look for him it , is not us look for him
stormy .
stormy of excitement .
one which can make boat come to come on yes
that written here .
6 day after super storm .
boat without seaman below under star .
that interest to river have never returned .
death .
that bring painfulness from here , from the top of god .
and bring more 3000 soul head to heaven
that in trust as pardon of allah .
gossip .
what that its meaning ?
what ?
is yes heard is poetic , what is the meaning of death ship .
who die , what ship have to go come home .
i earn to kuba
whether rudy of penjami of sonar let .
i hope to meet girl in road street to ausralia dead zona of afrika boat of death .
there is profile , other ?
pcr 60 degree . minute 0 holding up . that only trouble yes i discover that .
last of times rill you check i am there is last 3 hour clock water .
there is is other see this guys .
do not be sensible , this fresh water i better take example of yes
do not fine , they are only fighter searching .
thank you , all of all of you .
join at me thank you .
this property of general of maheya real correct yourdered .
extraordinary , right ?
this for tribe .
what you will goodness .
you know doctor which i inform , i fear him to mali .
i inform will take care of in legos we are there is problem and problem him now my problem .
general something else , if i may spell out members .
i care .
amount of from that why ?
because malian blurry soul head because disease disseminate very quickly and very quickly kill .
general i feel you have to control your population .
you inform i am how me run my state ?
you manage your business , i manage be mine .
of course .
do not have never ?
radio do not radar , rudy .
here you are again .
enstien , good place .
friend .
you have thrust into marian territorial water , kill machine all of you hi .
this algino converse al .
you go come home with my boat at you now .
where them there is awaiting .
discontinuing your machine .
doctor , we look for doctor where ?
forgiveness i do not speak inggris .
you speak inggris now do not .
i am only talking soybean cake i cannot speak inggris in inggris .
hold up .
discontinuing the him , before us open fire on .
take my hat let that is my hobby hat .
you do not fine yes
where burke i feel him
hold up .
i will enter , you jump out of front you wish i jump ?
forwards boat , understanding .
what i will ...
al what ?
this weapon signal for aid do not shoot .
hey forgiveness .
tut
that which i discuss .
you do not fine ?
that almost yes what ?
how do you do ?
i swim i also i shoot people with emergency weapon what ?
you just a few minutes spell out members to shoot one with emergency weapon .
don' t ...
you better don' t my boat celakai .
what you will ?
draw to panama what ?
panama yes
someone lift , they are is unmindful of me . altogether menganggu , lift its telephone
we are going to panama what is ?
i ignore you is to panama
why you call panama because us in panama
what you look for ?
al , i intrude .
how now we ?
how herewith just go
open of machine ok .
come on go al .
can .
he she like this .
what whenever you is the who is let what us do conduct ?
i feel you do not have to do conduct that ok .
we nicely yes
hold up ok .
he she succeed to panama
succeed at first time .
really succeed first time .
that halo of my hat again yes
fella , sand will cross with moment you you die from satellite telephone .
do not as angry as moment of rudy hit boat .
await why i am because we do not return .
we do not to lancelot .
i thank goodness can stay just guys .
soldier do not ask you ask doctor .
i am there is any feeling is which he she pursue .
yes we have to there first i am with you .
all of you the who is all of you have to inform daker how youch many people of cross ?
i have never taken practice .
a little a few little , i predict easierly .
i inform doctor to make your movement do not far .
whether you remember moment in moroco .
whether , we come in contact with camel
yes at that time . why ?
what secret at this object .
this in your bean . what shares is ? yes how come ?
you have to smile .
i feel do not .
i have informed .
who , halo .
there is people here ?
see this .
there is people here ?
halo .
yes god .
this new world in stealing this recenly .
i feel water soybean cake them make pain them .
you let grandmother go down .
grandmother you is indisposed for do something do not downwards , right ok , i will go down .
i am ofjust fine
yes that is
ok you seen excitement . giving a few more .
help carefully . slowly .
hold up .
eba hold up we get you do not fine ?
returning i do not just fine , giving i am the more string .
succeed tired me it
there is water , ok , good release you from there
hey seems we are there is guest .
don' t go kemana2 i will return .
ok .
halo i is doctor of hupert .
what you do conduct ?
help don' t shoot l .
hold up you hear that ?
this they were all yes package .
you know this state
sanction .
where your you ?
lgnore , i meet woman
you do not come pain him .
this pistol property of general of hopskin .
5 . 5 calibre .
hard in searching in roma
i have made belanda 27 pound of masing2 .
you better use its money for better usefulness .
like this plate .
i will give you is some suggestion . informing i am where doctor of rohas ?
he she do not here .
at the discretion of you .
make him like late prostitute here .
and its woman searching yes package he she here .
an place .
yume arrange perimeter i wish you check city wide
hey here yes package .
open just for ascertaining .
a few little aid here .
hold up .
let you do not fine yes
let .
we have to go .
await .
we finish here .
we are in state now .
we will drive to north about around 3 hour clock , to continent flatten
from there surely will easy to for the lewati of frontier of nigeria package .
we will pass .
what you do conduct here ? is picked off is bloodless , what you think of ?
wish responsibility ?
do not , you its ithim one who dare to , safe one .
call all , for me news bring
very can in reliing on to be caught with classic trap , how according to you ?
what one problem .
why you do not inform i is doctor in american military support
because do not who do conduct this .
they are non package amateur .
which they wish only boat .
they is fortune hunter of general karun .
military league don' t place in the background them carefully , and if you find them of bring their at me .
what is it ?
exit from its ithim
hands up , peripatetic with slowly .
what ?
hour clock 3 yes
hi how do you do ?
you see that stay fella .
why you here ?
you is there is enemy .
you is american people
cia do not .
i is doctor of who .
i check the source of this disease .
follow with me .
thls disease which you look for ?
yes
whether , excitement .
non link up .
what that non , that poison .
there is poison in water in afrika poison yes that which make pain them .
you can take care of ?
what i can do conduct for you what you do conduct at mali . beautiful state kiss my backside . in here american people with beautiful yatch .
there is problem here .
there is present there oh discharge l .
carl i have to call my staff .
you is citizen , you there
earn tragic something that , that no matter .
i do not ask friend . you is there is nyali .
here , and you i is my career risk will with this nonsense .
since you assume so , yes do not , because i will not do conduct him it
i will not do conduct him it
october 27 1982 .
yes i need you bring that , and now i have .
by doing conducting this we is series ls cleanness .
come on see what i can do conduct .
always my friend easiness . iron , nitrate , elementaryly its poisonous water .
i understand .
but that man follow your footstep .
you have to go tomorrow at first air transport
ln finding is same poison 300 mile from here .
we have to find its source
that for the you of , my duty here with my people .
we go tomorrow morning .
i hear .
1936 in wabasa 6 cylinder , you know only 6 which have in making .
how you get that we borrow .
from kazim .
bye hi ala thank you .
let me which do conduct .
ok here you are , here .
i am there is something that need all of you see yes ?
give i is time let .
that which we look for , right ?
yes ln the middle of sand desert .
yes , i do not mengambar photograph ok tequila . ship in desert is camel , is not boat of iron . unlikely of desert cross .
at before now this desert is rice field , dimana2 .
come from this river .
discontinuing this ruining i ignore .
like enchaining water level fall . ship become to interest yes like sailing to go , or dry land .
land ground become dirt , sand breeze , and ship still buried hitherto .
here precisely in side structure good ok .
which we await floods river again , and back to texas sail .
that do not disseminate what poison .
what in river which nothing there is no ignoreing . is same river on the surface of
only is subterranean of us depended in rock and sand .
subterranean poison of river system .
disseminating from river to river precise . become us find your you , we find underground river .
we find its river , we find the source of its poison
admiral do not now .
rudy admiral .
i am there is job' s news about your boat .
according to this , this its place
you know , if us here 150 last year .
we will swim now .
hey .
you know how seeing one who you have never see since smu .
and there is blocked work , and do existing woman marry of aids .
3 child , and him predict that humour .
nothing there is no intention , standing . don' t take that pekerjan . don' t menikah that harvey , you know your intention . goodness , we are in the middle of desert . searching the source of from river pollution . our map mengunakan , continue civil war mengambar . which also in farm . only is vexed is we have to sit and reevaluasi decision of us
i ignore .
hey al yes come on i see its binoculars
what you see i ignore .
seems like generating of solar energy .
ls bizzare , there is tower accept but nothing there is no cable of tranmisi exit .
enterprise nezar .
mazar that whoever , he she is there is heavy security .
come on see .
let go up , come on .
one two three
i get you .
you do not fine yes good work , dock how is good step into hole .
hey do not now rudy i am nothing there is no time . yes package .
ls unlikely .
turn yellow 5 reporting to station 3 .
procedure enter in running .
transfer protocol finish .
help to ascertain all on file material better .
thank you what place is good question .
this barel full of dismissal of chemistry he she is that room chamber .
exit of empty other side .
use strength of diesel fuel for the panasi of poison .
see brightly and clean also how with that ?
hi how do you do ?
yes god .
whether , i feel us find your source .
this surely team which is left behind .
ln countryside , in thinking they have died .
this start to make i sulk .
missing caveleri .
come on go .
whether doctor of rohas , i hope you live in legos .
become to earn report .
below under package . which you understand is .
there is problem of with water , real correct ?
rudy , irrigate in river have teracuni .
now in mali .
come go toing us quickly .
lf we do not do conduct something will regarding hit atlantik .
and moment irrigate that , growth of world will burst . oxygen of level at water which is terkontaminasi .
less until 40 gratuity % , killing our plant and animal life .
lf that to ocean , in 6 months to ny .
and there' s nothing we can do conduct .
only that ?
you is there is operation which is independent .
do not .
because state menganggu of afrika , will be difficult i is need you try
i do not will not look for this .
ok , i feel
so the way of doing conducting him it thank you .
where us ?
i ignore .
that anna
become 2 american people again on the way they is general . its doctor i feel there is accident of general .
there is gunfire , out of luck of him
he she die , yes general i apologize .
you know doctor of rohas you is lucky of real man me .
soybean cake you here .
this facility of miracle . technology of artik .
energi diesel fuel break poisoned , is not ugly idea .
that is dismissal of poison . easy , each every new technology there is enemy .
storm censor for example of , need in putting underground , become .
we have developed new husk to protect .
with this approach .
problem we will not in the past .
you poison underground river system .
disseminating to entire all afrika
you are is wrong , is unlikely .
who know you here ? governance of nigeria , and who .
there' s nothing know you here .
what you do conduct ?
i get him it
getting that ?
cleanness getting .
one two three one two three
await backwardly .
ls newly yes
we free to go come home now .
your package do not arrive , i fear to lose in desert .
lnform i am if you is doctor .
promise i he she have died yes you lose face to fall on hand woman general .
i come here to inform you .
passing the time nonsense .
frontier have in cover .
he she said in death or quarantine .
i do not finish all these for my me . yes i am there is reason of which sure for trust poison there are in river of nigeria
and problem of non us again .
but cannot but cannot find the way of is american ok . please close plate .
but payment you is at me will continue ok .
don' t worry this afrika
there' s nothing care about afrika
this in taking last 24 hour clock .
there' s nothing love see , because will be more beresiko .
this in taking last 4 hour clock .
showing peripatetic him him it to north my riddle , and intel support this .
they look for your staff we have to look for them first .
we have .
yesterday appear in on countryside
about around 20 mile in southwest
that in reach , you can get plane over there
staff have gone what ?
kemana pursuant to so far .
i ignore .
durk yes see it
goodness , you do not see that every day .
i bet at you 100
there is in there
hey don' t fear .
at that craziness of great friend .
but i feel we cannot improve repair this object .
to is left .
correctness over there
halo of admiral , how do you do ?
thanks , you is just where is ?
that good question .
hear i am there is job' s news .
your great friend throw away danger poison in nigeria
hope will become cessation hereinafter i am there is something for you .
rudy there is chemist here , if that do not in cover will reach to ocean .
and if that yes , will become base 0
i understand i am there is something that more . its crust team kazim and desert cross .
we can use serious youscle of admiral you will not get that . do not enough quickly , i am there is big time .
and that have to finish tomorrow i understand .
yes i cannot ask all of you go alone .
that part of best of package .
you know you do not have to .
nothing there is no time again anebo .
now your opportunity , hard work .
we are there' s only small choice .
nothing there is no fighting against machine gun . you is there is strength in number .
we attack moment he she do not wish .
we have to try you know what kazim ? finishing my people in life .
ln poorness you follow with us
and come on finish .
i cannot let my people is massacred in attack of frontal .
we cannot go with you i understand .
we are there is other idea .
i can borrow your car .
kazim .
we are into right ? you hi how do you do ?
call doctor .
continue to go forward to the fore let .
where everybody i ignore .
go . there is something wrong here , this place have of desert .
nobody home .
yes yes
what you do conduct if modern time mengekspose ?
i ignore , become president hiding secret , right ?
yes correctness how ? how you hide industrial disposal without others know him it ?
you fall , you will explode its place
do not see regularly .
what will in doing conducting .
that cause have to in leaving . make like accident of industry you turn tail .
that good idea do not why ?
poison will be subterranean , and will not there is a way of to bring exit him . breaking this place need detonator which is have cable .
will never like accident .
except one detonator in transferring .
all is depository of energy what seen like accident .
yes have to get that bomb .
i look for its bomb , you reach for its girl
agreement .
earn bomb in barel .
bring us of keatas here , let now come on walke .
that is , exit road street .
backward .
road street calm , sir forgiveness .
this do not see like this .
i see you throw away poison .
child and ill wife of me see dead man .
other at least don' t.
releasing this object from here quickly .
remain to here don' t make a move .
bring him 100 metre far itshis , i protect that .
active system .
all personal please to peaceful area .
launching position .
temperature pressure .
let .
attention , detected by failure of function . roll out of in killing . thank you and hopefully there is pleasant day .
releasing us from here quickly .
how many times i have to save your soul . because you ignore , i in fact have saved your x' self .
danger do not something .
here .
we have to go .
hey what with that costume ?
uniform , this of idea he she hey and lagian herewith we are there is enough gasoline ?
desist don' t too negative .
exit from there yes
kazim hey , he she wish its car return .
what al is you bring detonator cannot find them
i am nothing there is no time of course i bring detonator .
i hope you do not be maidenlike .
he she come .
al i need now .
road street .
doggone .
this ok of its plan
you are is rearward of my seat , road street . al yes giving that detonator .
hold up .
yes
i need you throw dynamite .
each time i spell out members yes
whether .
now .
road street yes
we is protection need again i labour .
yes god .
let walke .
let .
road street .
assist i let quickly .
see goodly . quicker . need a few little aid .
al yes you do not see more again , right ?
i do not see any .
30 minute again air transport time , this wall .
there is 2 thickness foot feet become unlikelyly of bullet penetrate .
sit and release .
ok , now . talking at me pass that again .
you do not fine yes
i is just fine
hey al do not durk tut
will not succeed why do not ?
that its 150 age year
have never in using that possibly will explode us yes is please . moment you open hey what us do conduct ?
i have to go out go .
civil war .
exit .
you do not fine yes
some other time you go . why llama hey all of you i stop for coffee .
yes i earn you also you is criminal guys .
i leave you and get its money guys what ?
oh excitement .
now we are in problem .
come .
yes ok .
we catch military kazim will surender . cutting snake head precise .
i get its camel
i need you find fuse in box .
this like stik .
150 yards how i get him it good .
that come .
how youch many example of in making ?
come on draw yes
we will draw , ready to ? one two three
yes i succeed .
boost up 80 degree now yes
i get .
i are tired to in shouting at .
hold up your position , protect area
i will finish this .
releasing .
seems you draw its snake unlikely , right ?
ln the eyes of me , super of us maintain its plate
peaceful river , and i understand who .
deputizing anti poison in countryside
from rohas better is late the than at have never of course .
become i trust your job activity in texas . goodness , ascertaining all is fluent .
whether , untrue possible .
what i hear gossip about american gold
and in texas really ?
will be good if correctness , do not , i believe nothing there is no american property gold
i very impress with all that you is impresikan .
below under here do not thank you .
i will not work with government again .
that which they tell .
they offer conversion to the expense of food for work make good fellow . who decide the who is good fellow you is only doing conducting work which you will .
i is new yatch need yes and new computer need rudy have .
one matter again .
fair to middling .
you are is better .
i think , remember that day in desert .
car , dynamite .
ln pursuing , helicopter .
yes
there is something that i need to spell out members at you i there is no chance to spell out members .
what ?
you is real correct girl .
hey you succeed .
