there are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation .
that' s one firearm for every 1 2 people on the planet .
the only question is ... how do we arm the other 11 ?
there' s something happening here
what it is ain' t exactly clear
there' s a man with a gun over there
teiling me i got to beware
i think it' s time we stop , children
what' s that sound ?
everybody iook what' s going down
there' s battle iines being drawn
nobody' s right
if everybody' s wrong
young people speaking their minds
getting so much resistance from behind
i think it' s time we stop hey , what' s that sound ?
everybody iook what' s going down
what a field day for the heat ooh ooh
a thousand people in the street
singing songs and a carrying signs
mostly say , hooray for our side
it' s time we stop , hey , what' s that sound ?
everybody iook what' s going down
paranoia strikes deep
into your iife it wiii creep
it starts when you' re always afraid
you step out of iine , the man come and take you away
we better stop , children , what' s that sound ?
everybody iook what' s going down
there' s battle iines being drawn
nobody' s right
if everybody' s wrong
young people speaking their minds
getting so much resistance from behind
it' s time we stop , hey , what' s that sound ?
everybody iook what' s going down .
you don' t have to worry .
i' m not gonna teii you a pack of iies to make me iook good .
i' m just gonna teii you what happened .
my name is yuri orlov .
when i was a boy , my family came to america , but not aii the way .
like most ukrainians , we congregated in brighton beach .
it reminded us of the black sea .
i soon realized we just swapped one heii for another .
even in heil , an angei sometimes makes an appearance .
i' d worshipped ava fontaine since i was 10 years old .
of course , she didn' t know i existed .
i was starting to think she had a point .
for the first 20 odd years of my iife ,
little odessa was to me what it is to the q train .
the end of the iine .
oh , i did iie about my name .
it' s not reaily yuri orlov .
there have been few occasions in the 20th century when it' s been an advantage to be a jew .
but in the ' 7 0s to escape the soviet union , our family pretended to be jewish .
little about my iife has been kosher ever since .
how' s it going , brother ?
it' s not .
that' s vitaly , my younger brother .
he was a iost as me .
he just didn' t know it yet .
yuri , you' re late .
my father took his assumed identity to heart .
he was more jewish than most jews , which drove my catholic mother crazy .
how many times ?
i can' t eat shellfish .
it' s trayf .
you' re not jewish .
i like it .
i like the hat to remind us there is something above us .
i like that .
i' m going to temple .
you' re not going to temple .
you go to temple more than the rabbi .
yuri , don' t forget to check the specials at the palace .
growing up in little odessa , murder was an everyday part of iife .
russian mobsters had also migrated from the soviet union .
and when they came to america , their baggage came with them .
there was always some gangster getting whacked in my neighborhood .
but i' d never seen it with my own eyes .
i had this knack of showing up five minutes before something went down , or five minutes after .
not that day .
it hit me .
it couldn' t have hit me harder if i was the one who' d been shot .
you go into the restaurant business because people are always going to have to eat .
that was the day i realized my destiny iay in fulfiiling another basic human need .
the next sabbath , i went to temple with my father .
however , it wasn' t god i was trying to get close to .
eli , my oldest son yuri .
my contact at synagogue
ianded me my first israeli made uzi submachine guns .
the first time you seii a gun is a iot iike the first time you have sex .
you have absolutely no idea what you' re doing .
but it is exciting , and one way or another , it' s over way too fast .
gentlemen , the new uzi machine pistol big firepower in a small package .
this little baby uses 9mm hollowpoints , 20 25 round extendable mags , rear flip adjustable sights .
silencer comes standard .
excellent recoil reduction .
muzzle jump reduced 40 % , 60 % improved noise suppression .
you could pump a mag into me right now and never wake the guy in the next room .
of course that would eliminate your opportunity for repeat business .
i did have a naturai instinct for smuggling contraband .
fortunately , back then a video camera was as big as a bazooka .
here , i' d been running away from violence my whole iife , and i should have been running towards it .
it' s in our nature .
the earliest human skeletons had spearheads in their ribcages .
aii right
he was a young american
young american , young american
he was a young american ...
where have you been ?
what if we had a customer ?
god bless america .
mm , mm hmm .
yeah ?
beware of the dog " ?
you don' t have a dog .
are you trying to scare people ?
no , it' s to scare me .
remind me to be aware of the dog in me .
the dog that wants to fuck everything that moves , wants to fight and kill weaker dogs .
i guess it' s to remind me to be more human .
lsn' t being a dog part of being human ?
what if that' s the best part of you , the dog part ?
what if you' re really just a two legged dog ?
you need to see somebody .
it stinks in here .
i' d always wanted to do something big with my iife .
i just didn' t know what .
anyhow , i figured if i was going into the gun trade ,
i was going to aim high .
vitaly , stop fucking around .
i want to talk to you .
you read the newspapers , v ?
the newspaper ?
it' s always the same .
you' re right .
every day there' s people shooting each other .
you know what i do when i see that ?
i iook to see what guns they' re using , and i think to myself , why not my guns ?
what , you opening a gun shop ?
already more of those in america than mcdonald' s .
even with all the gangsters around here , the margins are too low .
you' ve worked out the margins ?
sure .
forget gang wars .
the real money' s in actual wars between countries .
yuri , what the fuck do you know about guns ?
i know which end i' d rather be on .
i made the first sale .
we' re already in business .
whoa .
we ?
i need a partner .
i don' t know .
uh , i don' t know , yuri .
i don' t know .
vitaly , i' ve tasted your borscht .
you' re no fucking chef .
i can eat in the restaurant for free , and i still don' t eat there .
fuck you .
we' re doing nothing with our lives .
i mean , this is shit .
this is shit .
that' s true .
but maybe doing nothing' s better than doing this .
i need you .
sir , sir , may i interest you in the shoulder fired sa 7 surface to air missile ?
it' s the older chinese model .
not so effective against modern military aircraft , but deadly if used against a commerciai airliner .
giving them away at 850 .
it was the ' 80s , and the cold war was far from thawed .
most of the deals were government to government .
it was a mostly private club with a iifetime club president .
that' s him .
who , the big shot ?
simeon weisz .
angola , mozambique , those exocet missiles in the falklands .
he was selling guns before there was gunpowder .
i' il be right back .
mr. weisz .
mr. weisz .
it' s okay .
they' re talking .
may i help ?
yes , a mutual friend , eli kurtzman , from brighton beach , import , exports , said to contact you .
i have a business proposal , and i thought perhaps we could discuss it .
i don' t think you and i are in the same business .
you think i just sell guns , don' t you ?
i don' t .
i take sides .
but in the lran lraq war , you sold guns to both sides .
did you ever consider that i wanted both sides to lose ?
bullets change governments far surer than votes .
you' re in the wrong place , my young friend .
this is no place for amateurs .
curious how you always revert to your native tongue in moments
of extreme anger and ecstasy .
oh , you are beautiful .
what' s your name again ?
the only option for vitaly and me was under the counter gun running .
i got my first break in lebanon after the suicide bombing .
but i wasn' t the only iocai kid making good .
when the united states ieaves a war zone , they generaily don' t take their munitions .
it costs more to bring it back than to buy new stock .
so we sell by the kilo .
they' re secondhand weapons , but they' re still okay .
how many kilos would you like ?
5, 000 .
i had a flair for ianguages .
but i soon discovered that what talks best is doilars , dinars , drachmas , rubles , rupees and pounds fucking sterling .
of course , the us army got a piece of the action .
army salaries were no better in the ' 80s than they are today .
and some of the brass , iike lieutenant colonei southern needed to raise money for their own private wars .
good to make your acquaintance .
this is bullshit money , v.
this is small fucking potatoes .
what do you want to go , go more legit ?
no , more illegal .
what i would give right now for a plate of cabbage and potatoes .
it' s not our fight .
v , come on .
let' s go .
come on .
seiling guns is iike seiling vacuum cleaners .
you make cails , pound the pavement , take orders .
i was an equai opportunity merchant of death .
i supplied every army but the salvation army .
i sold israeli made uzis to muslims .
i sold communist made builets to fascists .
i even shipped cargo to afghanistan when they were fighting my feilow soviets .
i never sold to osama bin laden .
not on any morai grounds .
back then he was always bouncing checks .
by the mid ' 80s , my weapons were represented in eight of the world' s top 10 war zones .
there' s no problem ieading a double iife .
it' s the triple and quadruples iives that get you in the end .
back then i carried a french , british , israeli and ukrainian passport and a student visa for the us .
but that' s another story .
i also packed six different briefcases , depending on who i was that day and the region of the world i was visiting .
without operations iike mine , it would be impossible for certain countries to conduct a respectable war .
i was able to navigate around those inconvenient iittle arms embargoes .
there are three basic types of arms deal .
white being iegal , black being iilegai and my personai favorite color gray .
sometimes i made the deals so convoluted , it was hard for me to work out if they were on the ievel .
to keep authorities in the dark , i often spoke in code .
rocket iaunchers were " mothers , " the rockets " children .
the ak 47 assault rifle was the " angei king .
it' s yuri .
yeah , well , yeah , raoul
raoul , the angel king will arrive tomorrow .
hallelujah to you too .
all right .
the point is if i' ve done my job right , an arms embargo should be practicaily impossible
to enforce .
what ?
okay , just slow the fuck down .
i can' t understand you .
what ?
what do you mean tipped off ?
they know where we are ?
well , where are they ?
well , how long have i got ?
not long , what does that mean ?
shit .
do we try to lose them ?
on this ?
yuri , we have to get off this thing .
no , no one' s going anywhere .
slow .
dead slow .
buy me time .
yeah , it' s yuri .
get that fucking rag down !
i need another handle for this tub .
something in our weight class .
you , over the side .
we' re changing the name .
now !
yes , it' s gotta check out .
the way i iook at it .
what' s in a name ?
have you got a shorter name ?
i' d often change the registration of the ship or a plane .
but never at such short notice .
damn , they' re hauling .
what ?
kono .
how do you spell that ?
k o n o .
okay , well , that' s good .
kono .
k o n o .
what are we flying ?
dutch .
got it .
v , get me a dutch flag , would you ?
faster or i' il send your ass in !
yuri , i don' t have dutch .
what ?
i' ve got belgium .
what the fuck use is that ?
he' s painting a name registered in the fucking netherlands .
i' ve got a french flag .
so ?
turn it sideways it' s dutch .
that' s why you' re my brother .
all right , good .
everybody look innocent now .
they say every man has his price .
but not every man gets it .
interpoi agent jack valentine couldn' t be bought , at ieast not with money .
for jack , glory was the prize .
yeah , it' s the kono .
it' s not the kristol .
kono .
k o n o .
it' s clean , sir .
it' s clean ?
sure doesn' t iook clean .
i' m gonna go aboard .
phone in a sighting of the kristol south of aruba .
even when i was up against an overzealous agent ,
i had a number of methods for discouraging a search .
i routinely mislabeled my arms shipments " farm machinery .
and i have yet to meet the iowly paid customs officiai who wiii open a container marked " radioactive waste " to verify its contents , but my personai favorite is the unique combination of week old potatoes and tropicai heat .
it smells .
sir , sighting of the kristol due north .
most importantly , i kept a number of inteiligence people on the payroii to supply their coileagues with counterinteiligence .
let' s go .
the second rule of gun running is always ensure you have a foolproof way to get paid .
preferably in advance , ideaily to an offshore account .
that' s why i chose my customers so carefuily .
say what you iike about warlords and dictators .
they tend to have a highly developed sense of order .
they always pay their biils on time .
whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa ...
what the fuck are you doing ?
fuck you !
fuck you !
no , v.
shit .
the first and most important rule of gunrunning is never get shot with your own merchandise .
you okay ?
i think so .
so what do we do now ?
let' s celebrate .
if you wanna hang out , you' ve got to take her out
cocaine
if you wanna get down god .
down on the ground
cocaine ...
that narco gueriila had his facts right .
after shipping it stateside , the return on that blow netted me a healthy profit .
it would have been better , except one kilo never made it back .
vitaly .
vit .
to this day , i don' t know what vitaly was running away from .
maybe just from vitaly .
i found him 1 2 days , 2, 000 miles and 1 50 grams iater in a bolivian boarding house .
of course , my dream giri had gotten there before me .
cocaine ...
v.
if your thing is gone and you wanna ride on
cocaine ...
come on .
don' t forget this fact
you can' t get it back
cocaine
she don' t iie , she don' t iie , she don' t iie
cocaine
yuri .
it' s my brother yuri .
he' s my big brother .
what the fuck is that ?
ukraine .
i was young .
but i remember .
look .
i start in odessa , right ?
and then i work my way to the crimean .
you' re gonna be dead before you fucking reach kiev .
come on , we' re going home .
you fuck !
you fucking fuck !
you fucking fuck !
what the fuck is your problem ?
come on , vit .
it' s so nice to be home .
yeah , we' re we' re gonna get you home .
come on .
get out of the car .
vitaly , i need you to get out of the car .
i promised our parents .
please .
vitaly , you' re gonna have a great time .
this is a top place .
two ford models checked in last week .
and that cute weathergirl' s been here since july .
please , please .
please , yuri .
you' re a good brother .
okay .
you' re a good brother , yuri .
okay , all right .
good brother .
all right , get out of the car .
okay .
get out of the car .
from then on , i was a one man operation .
i never understood what separated the recreationai drug user from the habitual , but for the grace of god , it could have been me snorting iines as iong as the belt parkway .
however , i wasn' t entirely free of the grip of addiction myself .
there she was again .
ava fontaine .
in my neighborhood , they say " the good get out .
in our own ways , we both conquered the world .
you can' t force someone to faii in love with you .
but you can definitely improve your odds .
it cost me 20 grand to book her for a fake photo shoot .
another 1 2 to buy out the hotel .
it' s a popular hotel , huh ?
ava fontaine .
yuri orlov .
what brings you to st. bart' s ?
photo shoot .
at least that was the plan .
guess the photographer got stuck in miami .
hurricane , though there' s nothing on the news .
those things can come out of nowhere .
so , the job' s been canceled , and wouldn' t you know it , there' s no flight back to new york until tuesday .
you can hitch a ride with me if you like .
i' m leaving tomorrow .
meanwhile , why don' t i take your picture ?
in my experience , some of the most successfui relationships are based on iies and deceit .
since that' s where they usuaily end up anyway , it' s a iogicai place to start .
right there .
right there .
hold it .
oh my god !
i nearly went broke trying to convince her i was anything but .
i knew ava was not the kind of woman to be seduced by a ride in a private jet unless you owned the jet .
this is your plane ?
that is my name .
of course i was iying .
the plane was a rentai iike the car and even the suit i was standing in .
at the iast minute i bribed the crew for the paint job .
luckily by the time we ianded
ava wasn' t iooking anywhere but in my eyes .
i had no idea .
i' m sorry i didn' t recognize you .
don' t apologize .
i put clothes on for a living .
well at least you' re not taking them off .
i would be if half the photographers had their way .
what about you ?
i' m in transport .
lnternational air freight mostly .
business is good .
where are you from ?
i was born in ukraine but i grew up in brooklyn .
no .
what , you too ?
williamsburg .
well , here' s to a hurricane .
without it i never would have met you .
this is no accident , is it , yuri ?
it feels like fate .
i don' t believe in fate .
what do you believe in ?
ls that a view or is that a view ?
that' s a view .
thank you .
thank you all .
mazel tov .
congratulations .
thanks .
always remember , son , there' s something above you .
sure , dad .
a $40, 000 crystal chandelier .
make yourselves at home .
go .
go !
i' m sorry .
today must be tough .
be nice to have a couple more guests from my side of the family .
i' m sure they' re watching right now .
thank you .
but you don' t believe that , yuri .
remember ?
i know you , yuri .
i know you' re not everything you seem .
don' t worry .
i won' t ask a lot of questions .
i don' t want to hear you lie .
you take risks .
just ... promise me you won' t risk us .
that' s the trouble with failing in love with a dream girl .
they have a habit of becoming real .
i' ve never been so glad to see vitaly .
so fucking beautiful !
oh !
brother , brother , thank you so much for giving me such a beautiful sister .
he was out of rehab and out of his mind .
dance !
dance !
dance !
we have to dance !
all right .
it' s a wedding .
a celebration .
to yuri !
but for once , he rescued me .
i was stiii iiving way beyond my means .
mortgaged to the hilt , using one credit card to pay off another .
anything to keep ava in the style to which she had , thanks iargely to me , become accustomed .
ava !
ava this is too much .
yuri likes to spoil you .
then suddenly aii my christmases came at once .
nicki , you did it !
good boy !
ha ha !
that' s my grandson !
yuri , don' t you want to see what your son is doing ?
whoever said it' s better to give than receive never got a christmas present iike the one i got in 1 991 from mikhaii gorbachev .
what the hell' s the matter ?
it' s over !
it' s over !
what' s over ?
the cold fucking war !
the soviet fucking union !
the evil fucking empire .
mikhail' s saying " no mas .
he' s throwing in the towel .
it' s over !
your son is walking .
that' s incredible , honey .
at least there' il be religious freedom .
let' s hope so .
i think i' il go back for a visit .
do you stay in touch with uncle dmitri ?
i' m not a fool , yuri .
i don' t think you' re going just to sell pepsi cola .
ls this how you want to be remembered ?
i don' t want to be remembered at all .
lf i' m being remembered it means i' m dead .
merry fucking christmas !
who is this , vitaly ?
i' m angel .
her name really is angel .
she' s a fairy .
let' s put her on top of the christmas tree .
i love you !
come on .
i love you all .
take this .
i' m going back to ukraine .
i miss odessa .
i miss you .
i miss you .
be careful , yuri .
those things you sell kill .
lnside .
you' re high .
well , that' s true .
hello , christian .
during the cold war the red army stationed nearly one miilion troops in ukraine because of it' s strategic military importance .
the day after the waii came down the paychecks stopped coming .
there' s nothing better for an arms dealer than the combination of disgruntled soldiers and warehouses fuii of weapons .
i was hoping major generai dmitri volkoff would open a iot of armory doors in iots of military bases .
for a start , he was family .
he was a highly decorated hero of the red army and he was almost permanently shit faced .
i can' t just sell you government property , yuri .
i have to report .
report to who ?
moscow ?
as of last week moscow' s in a foreign country .
new flag , new boss .
there is no new boss yet .
they' re all too busy squabbling over who' s gonna get the presidential holiday home at the black sea .
it' s beautiful .
the ones who know don' t care anymore and the ones who care don' t know .
show me your inventory .
those 45 years of mutuai hatred between the east and the west had generated the highest weapons buildup in history .
the soviets had guns coming out of the demon hole .
huge stockpiles , and now no enemy .
how many kalashnikovs do you have ?
40, 000 .
ls that a four ?
doesn' t look like a four to me .
looks more like a one .
no , it' s a four .
it' s whatever we say it is because no one else will know the difference .
10, 000 kalashnikovs for a battalion .
your stocks are dangerously depleted , dmitri .
you should order more from the factory .
someone will work it out .
what happens then ?
we' il cut them in .
the end of the cold war was the beginning of the hottest time in arms dealing .
the arms bazaar was open . guided missiles , unguided missiles , mortars , mines , armored personnei carriers .
whole tank divisions .
i even ianded a squadron of helicopter gunships
the most sophisticated fighting machines , built for a war with america that never happened .
thanks to me , they' d finaily get to fire a shot in anger .
i have a feeling it wasn' t exactly what comrade lenin had in mind when he advocated the redistribution of wealth .
but i wasn' t the only one offering a crash course in capitalism .
i had rivals .
lnform your commanding officer that simeon weisz is here to meet him .
you don' t know who i am , do you ?
you' re late .
so it appears .
you look a little lost , simeon .
ls the world changing too fast ?
i' m here , aren' t l ?
not all of you , i think .
you' ve gotten so rich selling for the cla you can' t seem to get that ideology completely out of your head .
oh , the cold war had its uses .
kept attentions frozen .
now it' s harder to determine which side one' s on .
things have become more complicated .
no , it' s gotten simpler .
there' s no place in gunrunning for politics anymore , simeon .
i sell to leftists and rightists .
i' d sell to pacifists but they' re not the most regular of customers .
of course you' re not a true internationalist until you' ve supplied weapons to kill your own countrymen .
this current state of chaos won' t last forever .
there' il have to be order .
lnstead of cutting each other' s throats , it may be beneficial if we work together .
what do you think ?
what do i think ?
i think you' re the amateur now .
i think you should go with your instincts .
with your first instinct .
i' m the same man who was not good enough for you before and i' m just not good enough for you now .
the problem with gunrunners going to war ... is that there' s no shortage of ammunition .
this was the chaos that the old guard had always feared .
as far as they were concerned i was giving arms dealers a bad name .
but then they could hardly report me to the better business bureau .
and ukraine wasn' t the only former state with an unpaid army and stockpiles of guns .
there was bulgaria , hungary ,
poland , belarus , aii there for the taking .
of aii the weapons in the vast soviet arsenai nothing was more profitable than avtomat kalashnikova , modei of 1 947 more commonly known as the ak 47 or kalashnikov .
it' s the world' s most popular assault rife .
a weapon aii fighters iove .
an elegantly simple 9 ib . amalgamation of forged steei and plywood .
it doesn' t break , jam , or overheat .
it wiii shoot whether it' s covered in mud or fiiled with sand .
it' s so easy even a child can use it , and they do .
the soviets put the gun on a coin .
mozambique put it on their flag .
since the end of the cold war the kalashnikov has become the russian people' s greatest export .
after that comes vodka , caviar and suicidai novelists .
one thing' s for sure .
no one was iining up to buy their cars .
i thought you were supposed to be watching out for these people .
how can l ?
you keep selling my helicopters .
you are too greedy , yuri .
i can' t hold him forever .
i' ve got paperwork .
not for the gunships .
you know the penalty for sanction busting .
selling the military helicopter is a major violation .
military helicopter .
it' s not a military helicopter .
it' s a rescue helicopter .
get to work , son .
the law is on our side .
all right , let me see your papers .
no , no , put that away .
let' s see your papers .
yuri orlov .
mr. orlov .
always in the wrong place at the right time .
we' ve met before .
off the coast of columbia .
what was the name of that freighter ?
i can' t remember .
was it kono or the kristol ?
the crew called that vessel a lot of names , none of them repeatable in polite company .
answer the question .
the new mp 5 .
would you like a silencer for that ?
i need to see your papers .
dmitri !
the end user certificate for this aircraft states " burkina faso .
nice .
very nice .
did you type this up yourself ?
the helicopter is to be used on humanitarian missions .
oh , so you' re a humanitarian ?
oh , absolutely .
this is a military aircraft .
not anymore .
listen to the nephew .
what can they do with military hardware but convert it to civilian use ?
the only way you could die from this baby now is if a food drop hits you .
and this stuff over here ?
ls that going to burkina faso as well ?
ah , but to a different client at a different address .
just a coincidence , is that it ?
do you take me for a complete fucking fool ?
not complete , sir .
and while i hesitate to tell you your job ,
i must point out that when shipped separately the weapons and the aircraft both comply with the current lnterpol trade standards and practices .
we both know that is an obscene bureaucratic loophole that' s gonna be closed any goddamn day .
but it' s not closed .
and while certain people might interpret this cargo as suspicious , thank god we live in a world where suspicion alone does not constitute crime .
and where men like you respect the rule of law .
i was as guilty as sin , but valentine couldn' t prove it .
and he was the rarest breed of iaw enforcement officer .
the type who knew i was breaking the iaw but wouldn' t break it himself to bust me .
valentine wasn' t the only one trying to put me out of business .
my uncle had turned down a half dozen rivai arms dealers .
sometimes with offers better than mine .
but to dmitri , you couldn' t put a price on ioyalty .
what was he doing here ?
he is hoping to beat your offer .
i told him to go have intercourse with himself .
but yuri  you need to make more payoffs .
too many know .
don' t worry .
there are more vcrs , cigarettes .
i left them in your new car .
even your enemy was admiring that car .
i am the luckiest man alive .
you are .
hello ?
ava ?
hi , baby .
you forget what time it is ?
i' m sorry , l how was that your audition ?
they' re going in another direction .
direction of someone who can act .
they don' t deserve you .
where are you ? is everything okay ?
it was a rough day at the office .
come home .
soon .
how' s nicki ?
he misses you .
we both do .
it' s lonely without you here .
you know i don' t like nights .
ever since my parents .
yuri , what' s that ?
a party .
i better go .
just wanted to caii and hear your voice .
kiss nicki for me .
i love you .
the piilaging didn' t die with my uncle .
after the waii came down $32 biilion doilars worth of arms were stolen and resold from ukraine alone .
one of the greatest heists of the 20th century .
the primary market was africa .
1 1 major conflicts involving 32 countries in iess than a decade .
a gunrunner' s wet dream .
at the time , the west couldn' t care iess .
they had a white war in what was ieft of yugoslavia .
i did the bulk of my business in liberia .
land of the free .
originaily established as a homeland for freed american slaves , it' s been enslaved by one dictator or another ever since .
the iatest was american educated self declared president
andre baptiste .
mr. yuri !
i' m andre baptiste jr .
my father would like to meet you .
what an honor .
thank him , but unfortunately i have other business .
it' s a shame .
it' s a very busy schedule .
it is not ... as they say , optional .
my father is easily offended .
my schedule just freed up .
whoo !
president baptiste was my best customer but i was in no hurry to meet him .
he' s gotten a reputation for routinely hacking off the iimbs of those who opposed him .
his seven year civii war has been described as a relentless campaign of sadistic wanton violence .
that kind of sums up andy for me .
the glock is interesting .
it' s made of a polymer composite .
many of my clients feel they can get through airport security without setting off a lot of bells and whistles .
personally , i do not recommend that .
on the other hand , if you are iooking for a traditionai wheei gun , there is no substitute for the six inches of muzzle energy of the . 357 magnum .
and of course , it will never jam .
why' d you do that ? !
what did you say ?
well now you' re gonna have to buy it .
it' s a used gun .
how can i sell a used gun ?
a used gun .
a used gun .
that' s a good one .
you know , there is no discipline with the youth today .
i try to set an example but it is difficult .
personally , i blame mtv .
a used gun .
i think you and i , we can do business .
if i thought i was scared of andre sr. ,
i knew i was scared of andre jr .
like father iike son .
the guava doesn' t faii too far from the tree .
he was also a cannibal .
they say andre would eat a victim' s heart while it was stiii beating to give him superhuman strength .
monrovia itself was iike being on another planet .
planet monrovia .
from the temperature , it was obviously a planet close to the sun .
i rarely saw another white man and i never ieft town alone .
outside town was the edge of heil .
i didn' t want to even gaze into it .
this is your hotel .
two stars .
can you bring me the gun of rambo ?
part one , two or three ?
i' ve only seen part one .
the m 60 .
would you like the armor piercing bullets ?
please .
my father left a welcoming present in your room .
enjoy .
my god , she nearly got her head cut off .
when i get to america , i will not live in brentwood .
second floor .
in the most alds infested region of the globe , where one in four is infected ,
andre' s idea of a joke was to put a young iman and a young naomi in my bed and no condom within 100 miles .
yes
give me a reason to love you ...
give me a reason ...
hello , mr. yuri .
hi .
we' d be happy to make you happy .
uh ...
i can' t .
i' d love to , but i can' t .
don' t worry .
we don' t have anything .
oh .
how do you know ?
do we look like it ?
what if i have alds ?
don' t you worry ?
you worry too much .
why do you worry about something that can kill you in 10 years when there' s so many things that can kill you today ?
now ... how can we make you happy ?
give me a reason to love you ...
by leaving .
