master windu .
master windu , may i interrupt ?
general kenobi has made contact with general grievous , and we have begun our attack .
thank you , commander
anakin , deliver this report to the chancellor .
his reaction will give us a clue to his intentions .
yes , master .
i sense a plot to destroy the jedi .
the dark side of the force surrounds the chancellor .
if he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of grievous , then he should be removed from office .
the jedi council would have to take control of the senate in order to secure a peaceful transition ...
to a dark place this line of thought will carry us .
hmmmmm ... great care we must take .
chancellor , we have just received a report from master kenobi .
he has engaged general grievous .
we can only hope that master kenobi is up to the challenge .
i should be there with him .
it is upsetting to me to see that the council doesn' t seem to fully appreciate your talents .
don' t you wonder why they won' t make you a jedi master ?
i wish i knew .
more and more i get the feeling that i am being excluded from the council .
i know there are things about the force that they are not telling me .
they don' t trust you , anakin .
they see your future .
they know your power will be too strong to control .
you must break through the fog of lies the jedi have created around you .
let me help you to know the subtleties of the force .
how do you know the ways of the force ?
my mentor taught me everything about the force ... even the nature of the dark side .
you know the dark side ? !
anakin , if one is to understand the great mystery , one must study all its aspects , not just the dogmatic , narrow view of the jedi .
if you wish to become a complete and wise leader , you must embrace a larger view of the force .
be careful of the jedi , anakin .
only through me can you achieve a power greater than any jedi .
learn to know the dark side of the force ,
anakin , and you will be able to save your wife from certain death .
what did you say ?
use my knowledge , i beg you ...
you' re a sith lord !
i know what has been troubling you ...
listen to me .
don' t continue to be a pawn of the jedi council !
ever since i' ve known you , you' ve been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary jedi ... a life of significance , of conscience .
are you going to kill me ?
i would certainly like to .
i know you would .
i can feel your anger .
it gives you focus , makes you stronger .
i am going to turn you over to the jedi council .
of course you should .
but you' re not sure of their intentions , are you ?
i will quickly discover the truth of all this .
you have great wisdom , anakin .
know the power of the dark side .
the power to save padme .
so uncivilized ...
master windu ,
i must talk to you .
we have just received word that obi wan has destroyed general grievous .
we are on our way to make sure the chancellor returns emergency powers back to the senate .
he won' t give up his power .
i' ve just learned a terrible truth .
i think chancellor palpatine is a sith lord .
a sith lord ?
yes .
the one we have been looking for .
how do you know this ?
he knows the ways of the force .
he has been trained to use the dark side .
are you sure ?
absolutely .
then our worst fears have been realized .
we must move quickly if the jedi order is to survive .
master , the chancellor is very powerful .
you will need my help if you are going to arrest him .
for your own good , stay out of this affair .
i sense a great deal of confusion in you , young skywalker .
there is much fear that clouds your judgment .
i must go , master .
no .
if what you told me is true , you will have gained my trust , but for now remain here .
wait in the council chamber until we' il return .
yes , master .
master windu , may i interrupt ?
general kenobi has made contact with general grievous , and we have begun our attack .
thank you , commander
anakin , deliver this report to the chancellor .
his reaction will give us a clue to his intentions .
yes , master .
i sense a plot to destroy the jedi .
the dark side of the force surrounds the chancellor .
if he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of grievous , then he should be removed from office .
the jedi council would have to take control of the senate in order to secure a peaceful transition ...
to a dark place this line of thought will carry us .
hmmmmm ... great care we must take .
chancellor , we have just received a report from master kenobi .
he has engaged general grievous .
we can only hope that master kenobi is up to the challenge .
i should be there with him .
it is upsetting to me to see that the council doesn' t seem to fully appreciate your talents .
don' t you wonder why they won' t make you a jedi master ?
i wish i knew .
more and more i get the feeling that i am being excluded from the council .
i know there are things about the force that they are not telling me .
they don' t trust you , anakin .
they see your future .
they know your power will be too strong to control .
you must break through the fog of lies the jedi have created around you .
let me help you to know the subtleties of the force .
how do you know the ways of the force ?
my mentor taught me everything about the force ... even the nature of the dark side .
you know the dark side ? !
anakin , if one is to understand the great mystery , one must study all its aspects , not just the dogmatic , narrow view of the jedi .
if you wish to become a complete and wise leader , you must embrace a larger view of the force .
be careful of the jedi , anakin .
only through me can you achieve a power greater than any jedi .
learn to know the dark side of the force ,
anakin , and you will be able to save your wife from certain death .
what did you say ?
use my knowledge , i beg you ...
you' re a sith lord !
i know what has been troubling you ...
listen to me .
don' t continue to be a pawn of the jedi council !
ever since i' ve known you , you' ve been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary jedi ... a life of significance , of conscience .
are you going to kill me ?
i would certainly like to .
i know you would .
i can feel your anger .
it gives you focus , makes you stronger .
i am going to turn you over to the jedi council .
of course you should .
but you' re not sure of their intentions , are you ?
i will quickly discover the truth of all this .
you have great wisdom , anakin .
know the power of the dark side .
the power to save padme .
so uncivilized ...
master windu ,
i must talk to you .
we have just received word that obi wan has destroyed general grievous .
we are on our way to make sure the chancellor returns emergency powers back to the senate .
he won' t give up his power .
i' ve just learned a terrible truth .
i think chancellor palpatine is a sith lord .
a sith lord ?
yes .
the one we have been looking for .
how do you know this ?
he knows the ways of the force .
he has been trained to use the dark side .
are you sure ?
absolutely .
then our worst fears have been realized .
we must move quickly if the jedi order is to survive .
master , the chancellor is very powerful .
you will need my help if you are going to arrest him .
for your own good , stay out of this affair .
i sense a great deal of confusion in you , young skywalker .
there is much fear that clouds your judgment .
i must go , master .
no .
if what you told me is true , you will have gained my trust , but for now remain here .
wait in the council chamber until we' il return .
yes , master .
i take it general grievous has been destroyed then .
i must say , you' re here sooner than i expected .
in the name of the galactic senate of the republic , you are under arrest , chancellor .
are you threatening me , master jedi ?
the senate will decide your fate .
i am the senate !
not yet !
it' s treason , then .
you are under arrest ,
my lord .
anakin !
i told you it would come to this .
i was right .
the jedi are taking over .
the oppression of the sith will never return .
you have lost ...
no !
no !
you will die !
he is a traitor , anakin .
he' s the traitor .
i have the power to save the one you love .
you must choose .
don' t listen to him , anakin .
don' t let him kill me .
i can' t hold on any longer ...
i can' t ...
i am weak ...
i am too weak .
anakin , help me !
i can' t ...
i can' t hold on any longer ...
i am going to end this once and for all .
you can' t ...
he must stand trial .
he has control of the senate and the courts .
he is too dangerous to be left alive .
i' m too weak .
don' t kill me .
please .
it is not the jedi way ...
he must live ...
please don' t ...
i need him ... please don' t ...
unlimited power !
what have i done ?
you are fulfilling your destiny ,
anakin .
become my apprentice .
learn to use the dark side of the force .
i will do whatever you ask .
good .
just help me save padme' s life .
i can' t live without her .
to cheat death is a power only one has achieved , but if we work together ,
i know we can discover the secret .
i pledge myself to your teachings .
good .
good .
the force is strong with you .
a powerful sith you will become .
henceforth , you shall be known as darth vader .
thank you . my master .
rise .
because the council did not trust you , my young apprentice ,
i believe you are the only jedi with no knowledge of this plot .
when the jedi learn what has transpired here , they will kill us , along with all the senators .
i agree .
the council' s next move will be against the senate .
every single jedi , including your friend obi wan kenobi , is now an enemy of the republic .
i understand , master .
we must move quickly .
the jedi are relentless ; if they are not all destroyed , it will be civil war without end .
first , i want you to go to the jedi temple .
we will catch them off balance .
do what must be done , lord vader .
do not hesitate .
show no mercy .
only then will you be strong enough with the dark side to save padme .
what about the other jedi spread across the galaxy ?
their betrayal will be dealt with .
after you have killed all the jedi in the temple , go to the mustafar system .
wipe out viceroy gunray and the other separatist leaders .
once more , the sith will rule the galaxy , and we shall have peace .
commander , contact your troops .
tell them to move to the higher levels .
very good , sir .
oh , by the way , i think you' il be needing this .
thank you , cody .
now let' s get a move on .
we' ve got a battle to win here .
yes , sir !
commander cody , the time has come .
execute order sixty six .
yes , my lord .
blast him !
execute order sixty six .
it will be done , my lord .
master skywalker , there are too many of them .
what are we going to do ?
the chancellor' s office indicated master anakin returned to the jedi temple .
don' t worry , my lady .
i am sure he will be all right .
what' s going on here ? !
there' s been a rebellion , sir ,
don' t worry , the situation is under control .
i' m sorry , sir .
it' s time for you to leave .
and so it is .
get him !
shoot him !
everyone out of there !
all these wookiees are dead .
move to the east .
yes , sir .
good bye tarfful .
good bye chewbacca .
miss you i will .
hopefully we will be able to intercept a few jedi before they walk into this catastrophe .
did you find kenobi ?
sir , no one could have survived that fall .
start loading your men on the ship .
move it !
emergency code nine thirteen ...
i have no contact on any frequency .
master kenobi ?
repeat .
master kenobi ?
senator organa !
my clone troops turned on me ...
i need help .
we have just rescued master yoda .
it appears this ambush has happened everywhere .
we' re sending you our coordinates .
are you all right ?
i heard there was an attack on the jedi temple ... you can see the smoke from here .
i' m fine .
i' m fine .
i came to see if you and the baby are safe .
what' s happening ?
the jedi have tried to overthrow the republic ...
i can' t believe that !
i saw master windu attempt to assassinate the chancellor myself .
oh , anakin what are you going to do ?
i will not betray the republic ... my loyalties lie with the chancellor and with the senate and with you .
what about obi wan ?
i don' t know .
many jedi have been killed .
we can only hope that he' s remained loyal to the chancellor .
anakin , i' m afraid .
have faith , my love .
everything will soon be set right .
the chancellor has given me a very important mission .
the separatists have gathered in the mustafar system .
i' m going there to end this war .
wait for me until i return ... things will be different , i promise .
please , wait for me .
well , he is under a lot of stress , artoo .
take care , my little friend .
my lady , is there anything i might do ?
no thank you , threepio .
i feel so helpless .
how many other jedi managed to survive ?
heard from no one , have we .
i saw thousands of troops attack the jedi temple .
that' s why i went looking for yoda .
have we had any contact from the temple ?
received a coded retreat message , we have .
it requests all jedi to return to the temple .
it says that the war is over ...
well , then we must go back !
if there are other stragglers , they will fall into the trap and be killed .
suggest dismantling the coded signal , do you ?
yes , master .
there is too much at stake .
i agree . and a little more knowledge might light our way .
the plan has gone as you had promised , my lord .
you have done well , viceroy .
when my new apprentice ,
darth vader , arrives , he will take care of you .
we are receiving a message from the chancellor' s office , sir .
send it through .
yes , sir .
senator organa ... the supreme chancellor of the republic requests your presence at a special session of congress .
i will be there .
he will be expecting you .
it could be a trap .
no , i don' t think so .
the chancellor will not be able to control the thousands of star systems without keeping the senate intact .
if a special session of congress there is , easier for us to enter the jedi temple it will be .
artoo ... stay with the ship .
welcome , lord vader .
we' ve been expecting you .
and the jedi rebellion has been foiled .
what' s happening ?
the chancellor has been elaborating on a plot by the jedi , to overthrow the senate .
the remaining jedi will be hunted down and defeated .
not even the younglings survived .
killed not by clones , this padawan .
by a lightsaber , he was .
who ?
who could have done this ?
the attempt on my life has left me scarred and deformed ,
but i assure you my resolve has never been stronger .
in order to ensure our security and continuing stability , the republic will be reorganized into the first galactic empire , for a safe and secure society .
so this is how liberty dies , with thunderous applause ...
the war is over .
lord sidious promised us peace ... we only want ...
i' ve recalibrated the code warning all surviving jedi to stay away .
for the clones to discover the recalibration , a long time it will take .
wait , master .
there is something i must know .
if into the security recordings you go , only pain will you find .
i must know the truth , master .
it can' t be ...
it can' t be ...
you have done well , my new apprentice .
now , lord vader , now go and bring peace to the empire .
i can' t watch any more .
destroy the sith , we must .
send me to kill the emperor .
i will not kill anakin .
to fight this lord sidious , strong enough , you are not .
he is like my brother ...
i cannot do it .
twisted by the dark side , young skywalker has become .
the boy you trained , gone he is ...
consumed by darth vader .
i do not know where the emperor has sent him .
i don' t know where to look .
use your feelings , obi wan , and find him , you will .
when was the last time you saw him ?
yesterday .
and do you know where he is now ?
no .
padme , i need your help .
he' s in grave danger .
from the sith ?
from himself ...
padme , anakin has turned to the dark side .
you' re wrong !
how could you even say that ?
i have seen a security hologram of him killing younglings .
not anakin !
he couldn' t !
he was deceived by a lie .
we all were .
it appears that the chancellor is behind everything , including the war .
palpatine is the sith lord we' ve been looking for .
after the death of count dooku , anakin became his new apprentice .
i don' t believe you ...
i can' t .
padme ,
i must find him .
you' re going to kill him , aren' t you ?
he has become a very great threat .
i can' t ...
anakin is the father , isn' t he ?
i' m so sorry .
my lady , let me come with you .
there is no danger .
the fighting is over , and this is personal .
as you wish , my lady but i strongly disagree .
i' il be all right , captain .
this is something i must do myself .
besides , threepio will look after me .
green light .
i think i' m beginning to get the hang of this flying business .
the separatists are taken care of , my master .
it is finished , then .
you have restored peace and justice to the galaxy .
send a message to the ships of the trade federation .
all droid units must shut down immediately .
very good , my lord .
i saw your ship .
what are you doing out here ?
i was so worried about you .
obi wan told me terrible things .
what things ?
he said you have turned to the dark side ... that you killed younglings .
obi wan is trying to turn you against me .
he cares about us .
us ?
he knows .
he wants to help you .
anakin , all i want is your love .
love won' t save you , padme .
only my new powers can do that .
at what cost ?
you are a good person .
don' t do this .
i won' t lose you the way i lost my mother !
i' ve become more powerful than any jedi has ever dreamed of and i' ve done it for you .
to protect you .
come away with me .
help me raise our child .
leave everything else behind while we still can .
don' t you see , we don' t have to run away anymore .
i have brought peace to the republic .
i am more powerful than the chancellor .
i can overthrow him , and together you and i can rule the galaxy .
make things the way we want them to be .
i don' t believe what i' m hearing ...
obi wan was right .
you' ve changed .
i don' t want to hear any more about obi wan .
the jedi turned against me .
don' t you turn against me .
i don' t know you anymore .
anakin , you' re breaking my heart .
you are going down a path i can' t follow .
because of obi wan ?
because of what you' ve done ... what you plan to do .
stop , stop now .
come back !
i love you .
liar !
you' re with him .
you brought him here to kill me !
let her go , anakin .
let her go !
you turned her against me .
you have done that yourself .
you will not take her from me .
your anger and your lust for power have already done that .
you have allowed this dark lord to twist your mind until now ... until now you have become the very thing you swore to destroy .
don' t lecture me , obi wan .
i see through the lies of the jedi .
i do not fear the dark side as you do .
i have brought peace , freedom , justice and security to my new empire .
your new empire ?
don' t make me kill you .
anakin , my allegiance is to the republic ... to democracy .
if you' re not with me , you' re my enemy .
only a sith lord deals in absolutes .
i will do what i must .
you will try .
i hear a new apprentice , you have , emperor , or should i call you darth sidious .
master yoda , you survived .
surprised ?
your arrogance blinds you , master yoda .
now you will experience the full power of the dark side .
i have waited a long time for this moment , my little green friend .
at last , the jedi are no more .
not if anything to say about it , i have .
at an end your rule is and not short enough it was .
if so powerful you are , why leave ?
you will not stop me .
darth vader will become more powerful than either of us .
faith in your new apprentice , misplaced may be , as is your faith in the dark side of the force .
hurry .
careful timing we will need .
activate your homing beacon when you' re ready .
there is no sign of his body , sir .
then he is not dead .
double your search .
yes sir .
right away , sir .
tell captain kagi to prepare my shuttle for immediate takeoff .
yes , master .
i sense lord vader is in danger .
into exile i must go .
failed , i have .
i have failed you , anakin .
i should have known the jedi were plotting to take over ...
anakin , chancellor palpatine is evil .
from my point of view , the jedi are evil .
well , then you are lost !
this is the end for you , my master .
it' s over , anakin .
i have the high ground .
you underestimate my power !
don' t try it .
you were the chosen one !
it was said that you would , destroy the sith , not join them .
bring balance to the force , not leave it in darkness .
i hate you !
you were my brother , anakin .
i loved you .
master kenobi !
we have miss padme on board .
yes .
please , please hurry .
we should leave this dreadful place .
obi wan ?
is anakin all right ?
your majesty , this way !
there he is .
he' s still alive .
get a medical capsule , immediately .
yes sir .
right away .
excuse me , master yoda .
obi wan kenobi has made contact .
we' il take her to the medical center , quickly .
medically , she is completely healthy .
for reasons we can' t explain , we are losing her .
she' s dying ?
we don' t know why .
she has lost the will to live .
we need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies .
babies ?
she' s carrying twins .
luke ...
oh luke .
it' s a girl .
leia .
obi wan ...
there ... is good in him .
i know ...
i know there is ... still ...
lord vader , can you hear me ?
yes , master .
where is padme ?
is she safe , is she all right ?
it seems in your anger , you killed her .
i couldn' t have !
she was alive !
i felt her !
hidden , safe , the children must be kept .
we must take them somewhere the sith will not sense their presence .
split up , they should be .
my wife and i will take the girl .
we' ve always talked of adopting a baby girl .
she will be loved with us .
and what of the boy ?
to tatooine .
to his family , send him .
i will take the child and watch over him .
until the time is right , disappear we will .
master kenobi , wait a moment .
in your solitude on tatooine , training i have for you .
training ?
an old friend has learned the path to immortality .
one who has returned from the netherworld of the force ... your old master ,
qui gon ?
how to commune with him .
i will teach you .
captain antilles .
yes , your highness .
i' m placing these droids in your care .
treat them well .
clean them up .
have the protocol droid' s mind wiped .
what ?
oh no .
