and condooms on none distance of 100 kilometres to find .
hello , mr yuri .
hi .
it makes our gladly you fortunately make to be able !
i am not possible .
i want , however ... but i am not possible !
you make no care , we have nothing !
how do we know that ?
to see we then , as if ...
what if i have alds ?
do you make yourself no care ?
you make yourself much too very .
why make you look themselves concerning something what you nevertheless over ten years catch , whereas there is so much things , that you can kill the day today ?
how can we can make you happy ?
by leaving .
these are my kalasnikovjongeren .
my boy brigade .
i see what you think .
we can use each man .
even as men still no is ?
balls of a fourteen year old are ... exactly as effective as those of forty people whose birthday it is .
sometimes more more effective ...
nobody can bathe these of blood to stop .
is not it bathe of blood , it is carnage !
thank you ... but i go for my manner ...
i do not will pay your vraagprijs .
we are no rich people , as a matter of fact ... the market has been already satisfied with your kalasnikovs .
you you realise , that in some parts ... of my land you there one can get for the price of a ticket ?
you cannot compare this with only copy .
do not forget the remaining costs . user certificates , schuilbedrijven set up , insurance documents , transport charges ... and do not forget bribe costs !
you get here nothing without bribes .
everywhere you must what to bribe .
andy , lustre to me ... this is an expensive proposal .
andy ?
i will pay you with woodwork ... or stones .
then i take the stones , rather cumbersome to shove a tree in my trunk .
i weet what is your plans , not meant but ... if you yielded still can wait , i can provide your machine gun carriages .
those produce you less gesneuvelden .
they provide your strategic advantages on !
your weet that them me lord of the war call .
but are perhaps you that !
it is not lord of the war .
it is warlord !
thank you , but i go for my manner ...
conflict dia is much attentive tender in africa .
also blood diamonds called .
by blood all this gefinnancieerd become shed .
behind in the 90er years my capital had , the leugens caught up with concerning my capital almost .
even beyond my leugens ...
i was possible it me even to permit art buy .
i cannot believe it .
but it is natural that terrible .
i had not expected it simply that it would happen this way rapidly .
yes , that would be also terrible .
it is super , hartstikke thank .
it is yuri ...
thank you , day .
this were the salesman to the phone , i my zojuist property tossed about first painting .
that is fantastic .
who it has bought ?
it is an important someone ... even no name or address .
that is terrible !
how you was travel ?
your weet , however , gewoontjes just like always .
where are niki ?
he lies already in bed , he was too tired stay up .
my first painting !
i are now officially an artist .
asks this for a drink .
wait once even .
yuri , this is ...
candy .
o , candy , of course ...
a friend of my brother is friend of my family .
you live splendidly , everything !
yes , that is correct .
yes , that does i.
i will look at just as to our zoon .
how it goes , broertje ?
your weet , however ... still the failure of the family .
nou yes , someone must nevertheless do it .
ava weet it nevertheless , or not ?
i have wanted tell it its never ...
that does not need , she will understand it .
them is a victor just like i.
perhaps them a victor is , but not just like you .
them weet not even how you pay for this all ...
we do not talk about this .
how many men talk at home concerning their work ?
how many cigarette salesmen , there go more people dead to their products then which of me ... that of me have at least a security stop .
those guests run each day simply to their office .
that does i also !
god , verdomme what is you well .
weet you what you are ?
even i have been almost persuaded !
you can ...
can you help me just as ?
why ?
why ?
why ?
why , what ?
why ?
i weet it not .
why ?
what ?
why are you always to klote ?
because i am a failure .
i did not know how many ava knew or how much them denied .
she has me never in demand , how i transport matter has come or ... how we 18 carats diamanten ear bels could permit .
i think that she could not hear my answers .
generally she felt condemned , i was good breadwinner and as far as they look himself made , loyal .
in spite of all other women , have i only with ava gevreen ... as if she was some .
i have never said that i developement has had .
it is no trade for nothing .
you must be fast .
some revolutions are already beyond before the weapons are aim has reached .
there is more preciously nothing for an arms trafficking ear then peace .
peace ?
what means you with peace , the weapons are already underway .
peace discussions !
leave also but , we forward it , however , to the balkans , if they say that them ... a war have , then to keep them their war but .
a new reinflation arms trafficking ears must also a new type of treatment .
andre , me brings avanue to park .
bring the spullen but to new jersey .
yuri ?
there men in our dustbins sit .
, however , journalists will be , in search of someone else .
i do not have a feeling that them for the gossip press work .
yuri ...
there is something where i me look must make ?
no , nothing .
nothing ?
i hou of your .
i hou also of you .
sir .
insipid was now , however , beyond .
i had no own plane but its own fleet .
weapons negociate in liberia , sirra leone and the arab coast minimum a time per week .
generally i had already my reisjes the papers in order .
if the deadline expired and i had provide , then i had no papers .
but i made myself really do not look , there was nevertheless almost no radars above africa ... but and there is a couple people that keep an eye in the sail .
c. e. i. countries on the fly field of kaballa , direction 2 . 0 . 9 .
react immediately .
yuri , what is this verdomme ?
colonel southern , it regrets me that i you on this number must ring but ...
i have interpol on my roof sit .
this is not the correct moment .
not the correct moment ?
dirty klootzak .
c. e. i. unclear reacting .
this is the last warning .
what was the first warning ?
we obtain your from air if you do not react !
i put us to the ground .
if your country enters we the barge , i have no papers .
if we doorvliegen go then we also .
these balls cannot avoid you .
i put us to the ground .
ok , ok .
god far stupid one !
this c . e. i. we ask authorisation for the route to the fly field of kaballa ... to follow , direction 2 . 0 . 9 .
no , not the fly field .
there the motorway , that is our only hope .
you crazy person has become , he shoots our from air !
you underestimate yourself , alexi .
you are the bests .
you are shit , shit and shit !
of course alexi not the bests were .
he was 42e of 43 the piloten on the fly school of moscow .
where he does she deal to ?
what is that for a mafkees ?
in cannot land here .
kaballa are 15 minutes here from .
he cannot get away far .
i want him and its transport have .
it comes good .
where do you shut to ?
up to that point possible of the proof material from .
wait , no proof will be .
bowl !
bowl once here .
timid is not .
here , for free for you .
say your friends !
bowl but , help yourself !
bowl but , rapid .
take along , take along .
guns , grenades .
but , package but .
rapidly , but take along .
balls , guns , grenades , fast .
bowl and clears off !
these have you name stand .
bowl .
do not forget the balls .
everything are free .
what a day to the cargo on heathrow costs , only 10 minutes lasted at a couple ... meloenenplukkers and what farmer people from sirra leone .
by the time that agent valentine was there , you could more weapons find in a plane full with kwakzalvers .
yuri orlov .
verdomme .
can he ?
no , mbizi .
no !
can you run without legs ?
i can let disappear him , sir valentine .
here happens that this way frequently .
that cannot do i.
look once where we are .
we are only !
that we .
he gets what he deserves .
i have seen that .
what is the charge ?
what does you in sirra leone ?
i am or safari .
do you shoot with a machine gun on the gnoe ?
also work do you at the parkeerservice ?
hunt without license , is that the charge ?
why you continue play games .
you transport weapons .
negociate .
you negociate and transport .
you become richly because you poorest people on ground foresees ... of weapons what contents that they continue kill each other .
weet you why i do what i do ?
there no prestige in the work sits ... at us continuing trace nuclear weapons that our security endanger .
but that is not this way .
nine of ten that are now killed , happens by small weapons such as those of you .
those nuclear rockets remain in their silos ...
you aka47 is the real mass destruction weapon .
i do not want that people die , agent valentine .
i put a nobody gun against head and late they persuade the trigger .
i must admit that a shooting war , business more attractive is ... but i give that to the preference them my weapons decrease , in masses ... if they continue shoot but .
where does this passing away ?
you have nothing to me .
except these buoys then ...
because you are this way accommodating with the law , then you must know that i you minimum ... 24 hours can hold without a charge .
you can you wonder why i do that .
i can you insure that the your gezelschap is not .
no , the reason why i you each seconde of that 24 hours hold is ... the delay in your deadly trade and it die of your victims .
i do not see decreasing this as a day of you , but giving a day to them .
a onschuldige man , woman or child gets an extra day on this world because you are not free .
thus , i see you over 23 hours 55 minutes .
valentine knew that he did not have monitor me .
i was possible nowhere gone .
perhaps he hoped that local people me verschuren .
but were that too very busy with the plane .
it is the same as you yourself car in certain buurt parks in the bronx ... that does not do you simply .
the way i examined it , the manner of africa is .
perhaps of living ...
everything what of the ground descends , returns ever .
even 40 barrels transport plane with twelve laadvloeren .
a present for you .
your competitor is not dead .
i am frightened that he will die .
but i want you the chance to give him to assassinate .
this man came here and hoped you take over place to be able .
or is correct that not ?
no , i came here not for to sir baptiste to provide .
i am here for to its enemies to provide .
and i can say that my mission has succeeded .
he has you family assassinates .
your uncle ... when he has you to try assassinate .
no .
no ?
you want , however , that he is finished ...
no .
no , no , i ...
you want him dead have but you want itself does not do .
ok then ... we will do it together .
that linked an experience will become .
your weet that you can this stop , each moment which you want .
i think that you that do not improve can do .
say the magical word but .
say it but ... stopper .
stopper .
i will give another one a chamber you , my friend .
with a much more beautiful view .
he has ordered bruintje for your .
what ?
bruintje .
what is it ?
a mix of cocaine and ... kruit !
they give it to the young men before they fight at appetites .
then they do everything !
another time .
he will not appreciate it if is geste is refuseen .
why ?
because it you is kruit .
long i a lot cocaine had already sniffed in west afrika .
i had never tried bruintje .
but i had also never someone assassinate .
i have nevertheless done nothing , or ?
i have nevertheless done nothing , or ?
you have not done much .
be you sick , infecties , alds ?
question it the blanke , he weet , however , council .
sir , krijg i my hand still ?
simeon ?
thus it you will fare also ... if it is time ...
simeon ?
you give portfolio verdomme .
yes , krijg the klere !
it regrets me , i weet , however , how you must do that .
me lets look at once , i can repair it , however .
according to me the magazijn sticks .
but give here .
fall dead !
i got the feeling that i curses was .
the vloek of ongenaakbaarheid .
niki , alsjeblieft go to your chamber .
i do not believe you .
can you this proofs ?
mr orlov faces a lot problems to keep its matter legal .
even with you .
perhaps even , especially for you .
i do not expect that i here today something will find .
what wants you then ?
i hoped that you would want me help with that .
i have understood that you parents tragically for living has come ?
couple brooklyn shot at roofoverval .
the illegal weapons which your father and mother have assassinates , have been provided by a man ... that exact does the same as your man .
i want that you go gone .
time .
ava ?
ava what are there to the hand ?
i can no longer carry the kleren , i can no longer carry the jewels .
i can no longer control the car .
i can no longer live in this house .
everything have been stained with blood .
stains with blood ?
what is there ?
do not do this way melodramatical .
i am melodramatical .
i am an actress , weet you still .
i have nevertheless told you that these people from the political actions .
they lie , it are liars .
they lie so that they improve for the day come .
you cannot trust them .
they are not only it .
i sale people their need , to defend itself .
that is everything .
i see the news , i see the pictures .
the weapons are larger than the boys .
there is nothing resistance workers to what i do .
me does not determine it if illegal is ...
it is wrong !
alsjeblieft , stopper .
it makes no difference or i stop .
then someone will take my spot .
late them but .
we have enough .
it does not concern the money .
what is it then ?
i am terrible good .
i have the feeling that i my complete living beautiful has been .
i mean ... everything what i have done are reborn to be .
in my profession as an actress , as an artist ... and the motherhood .
i even think that i no longer it are beautiful .
i have failed in everything , yuri .
but i will not fail as people .
my enemy has eventually a weapon found that me can do pain .
the six succeeding months have i none weapons negociated more , i went legally work .
i have it concerning five millions cubic meter wood per month .
more than hundred types that you can process .
oil , just as between our , be present still at a test stage .
ten thousand barrels per month .
he must break the law .
he talks !
the gas reaches of the arab coast to the desert , to place that you not even know ...
the phone numbers are correct all .
everything are correct .
no wonder that valentine was confused .
god they thanks is there also still legal manners third world to land to help .
the problem of a honest penny , is that it does not produce much .
the market share is too low .
too much people act .
but i had promised the ava .
yuri , the president of liberia is underway up .
he is too asked .
i am this way .
what does you verdomme here , andre ?
we are here for peace negotiations under the flag of the united nations .
and at the same moment come you just as at your weapon supplier ?
i started myself make care concerning your ...
you are catch suddenly this way with difficulty to get .
that is jammer .
and i had my zoon hoped be possible shop , now we nevertheless here in new york are .
your weet that they watch me ...
yes , i weet it , they give me everywhere the debt of , those hypocrites .
it are dirty rats .
i am not possible ...
the enemies say that i have done it .
they make me it difficult for the plane at missing .
therefore we want use of your ongenaakbare service .
i cannot help you , it regrets me .
i understand it ... but you must understand this ...
given the current situation of ours compatriots must you , however ...
therefore i see you rapidly , without war .
you have still the advantage of the gun of rambo !
after four and half month has human foetus reptielenstaart .
a remainder of the evolution .
perhaps i could not escape as a result .
you can find many enemies and surviving , but if you your nature enters ... always lose you .
to take you no farewell of me , i leave over ten minutes .
sorry , nikki must to its training .
i am glad that you go .
you are here again this way long that it works on my nerves . up to thursday will last .
i am then for the weekend , then we passing away somewhere , the sea ?
that is very well .
he , you nevertheless trust me ?
she looked at me in my eyes such as i thousands douaniers , bureaucraten of the ministry ... and gezagsvoerders .
yes , i trust you .
she lay without zenuwtrekje .
i see you soon , large giving birth .
day , papa .
she has it of the bests learned !
that is him .
where we shut to , mummy ?
it is a game , dear .
such as verstoppertje ?
yes , just like verstoppertje play .
i have a feeling if i am pursued .
i weet where i must pay attention to .
but i have been never pursued by the woman of which i hou .
i am possible mezelf from most difficult situations save .
she will have understood it as the combination the last celebrates figures ... of my national insurance number would be , my birth date , even its birth date ... but not that of nicolas .
birth day of my zoon , as a lock combination , the government later ... define as the carnage catalogue .
but remain just as here .
bowl we go , treasure .
come look at you to other half ?
mr bush .
pa and ma say that you are clean .
yes , and you also .
you are now on the straight path ?
that is difficult believe .
that is because it not where is .
i want let you know that i vanavond departure for a klus , i want that you come along .
i am not possible .
i have a girlfriend , i think that it this truth is .
plus i think its own of opening matter .
perhaps that this reisje are possible you to help , it deserves good .
yuri ...
i have promised it them .
nobody needs namely knowing .
we say simply that we on holiday go .
why do you need me now ?
because it is a risky klus .
more than usually .
i can trust no one else .
i need you for me to protect .
broeders with weapons .
liberia 2001
yuri .
well you to weerzien !
well you both to see .
welcome at democracy .
democracy , what you have andy drunk ?
there we return still on .
weet you , them to accuse me of corruption at the elections ... but after seeing this ... the higher court of justice can of the kangaroes in florida and v. s. for always their mouth keep .
how you nevertheless do this , yuri ?
how you nevertheless do this whereas they watch my airspace ?
where wants , a weapon is .
bowl , where is my klote money ?
if it is provided .
it has been provided .
this is not for me .
this is for my neighbours in the west .
the west ?
do we go to sirra leone ?
yes and my zoon will introduce you to correct people .
we have no freight carriages .
soon , however , as soon as food is .
the gun of rambo .
sir yuri ...
you always apprehend you your word .
where do we shut to ?
our new west , the vrijheidsstrijders ...
most of the africans who demonstrate , to give itself noble names ...
liberalen zus , patriots this way , democratic republicans or something what seems .
they express himself such as them are , federation of war oppressors , the last of the oppressors ...
there barbaric circumstances frequently take place , if they claim both , vrijheidsstrijders to be .
well , i have there five , gloed new from the box , just like these .
what have do you ?
my god .
jesus .
yuri , i must speak you .
not now .
now !
excuse me .
what ?
we cannot wind up this deal .
god far stupid one , what is there with your ?
look .
as soon as we transfer these weapons that people go .
that is not our matter .
they assassinate a little boy exactly as small as nikki .
what is the oponthoud ?
there is no oponthoud , i come this way .
vitaly , it goes such as we it have always blamed .
you cannot check what them to do .
no .
today we can that , however .
yuri , look there !
if we cut down , them our deads .
and if we continue , what does them then with them ?
we must do something .
alsjeblieft , verdomme do something !
it is not our fighting .
alsjeblieft , broeders with weapons .
what says he ?
the deal , my brother is not glad with conditions ... but we try solve it .
presents nothing .
ok , it presents nothing .
nothing ?
you are right .
i must remain strong .
this is not our fighting ?
is correct .
ok , the deal was 3 antitank weapons , 500 guns and 800 grenades .
wait once , 1200 grenades were .
i was this way with the deal busy that i me not realised what took place there in vitaly' s head .
that is 1200 grenades ...
confused ...
if i reflect there concerning i have never understood what took place there in its head .
it regrets me , i can still another stone examine ?
a thing what i knew certainly ...
vitaly broke most important rule of an arms trafficking ear .
never tevoorschijn obtain a weapon , to amuse customers .
what does you ?
something is not correct there .
go aside , slow .
no , wait !
no , vi !
half of the weapons had lost , i got therefore also but half of the dia .
if i had caught them , i had gone .
if i had gone gone , koste that head also my .
the hecatomb went such as vitaly had the voorspeldt .
but zestal other slachtpartijen took place that weak in sirra leone .
you cannot them all against keep .
from my experience you can there against do not keep .
they say that it overcomes angry as good does not succeed act correctly .
what they in fact mean is , that it overcomes angry everything .
i have now agreements still more with the leader of that country ... what god obviously the twinge has left .
we saw to each other with the same aim for eyes ... or perhaps we looked at in a mirror .
fly field of new york 2001
the koste me 20 dollars to a customs officer from narobi for the body of vitaly ... concerning the border to get with a false death certificate .
i more paid must .
i millions have negociated balls , exactly that one that me in the prison ... would do end up , zit in ribbenkast of my broertje .
yuri orlov ...
we are of the office of tobacco , alcohol and weapons ...
me lets guess once , this does not concern alcohol and tobacco ?
the house of orlov .
papa .
both my zonen are dead .
but there are two tracheen in living .
one implies that you do not get what you want .
the other are that you get it , however .
this is there of you ?
jacket got valentine at last what he wants .
it is strange that the death certificate says , that he to heart attack has died .
falsifying a death certificate ?
that will not hold me .
that is correct .
like usually , be you right .
have you read the newspaper of today ?
false death certificates , business bankruptcies that are daily costs .
there is no warlord , dictator or matter man in the world with which you have no good links .
it was you proud woman , that ounce to the price has brought .
it is not its error , she is exactly as easily to follow as you .
can i ?
tuurlijk , you go pace .
you enjoy of it .
what ?
of this .
me does not tell nou that you do not loathe me ...
my devotion to angry ...
responsibly for demolishing the world order , i am eenmans genocide ...
if you want say still something , say it then now .
because do not have you much time more .
do you pay attention , however , to ?
or you has a beetje been confused ?
you have each rule of the weapon embargo broken , there is enough proof material here ... for you for several times for life , to tuck away .
you the coming ten years long of your cell to the court bldg . must ... before your berhaupt you can sit out sentence .
i do not think that you the appreciation realises for the situation in which you have ended up .
my family has rejected me .
my woman and zoon have me to leave .
my brother is dead .
trust me , i realise really ... the appreciation which i get for my situation .
and i promise you ...
i no seconde in the court present is !
you are really confused .
i can you , however , jacket ...
perhaps also not , but ...
i understand you , however .
i will tell once you what there go happen ... then you can yourself beetje prepares .
ok .
as soon as that door is been correct , zul you for outside are asked ... in the hall a man stands who above your state .
he will firstly compliment you for your terrible commitment .
and you the world has made a piece more safe .
and you will distinguish also still to become with promotion , then he will tell you that i become released .
then zul you grumble ... probable zul threaten you with your dismissal , but eventually i will nevertheless be released .
the reason for which i will be released , is the same reason for which you think that is condemned .
i mass the shoulders of someone who this way valuable and sadistic is and itself ... of the largest leaders calls .
some of those men are the enemies .
also you enemies .
whereas the largest arms trafficking ear in the world , the president of the united states ... those ship more spul per day than that i in a year transport .
sometimes it is shameful , for those finger impressions on the weapons to retrieve .
sometimes have you freelancer , such as i , for armed forces to provide with ... spoken where them normally at cannot come .
therefore ...
you call me it .
but unfortunately for you ...
i am indispensable !
i would say you , that you to the verdommenis can run !
but i think that your there already are .
finely matter with you to have done .
the most are glad if them already from the prison come .
i expect for that to be paid .
i am not crazy .
i understand as none other one that them me ... that day necessary had , that them me the next time on will sacrifice .
but i was .
that to do in which i am the bests .
umbrellas to the sahara ?
zonneschermen .
bowl but further .
go further .
she leaves but by .
weet you which inherit the ground ? arms trafficking ears .
the rest is assassinate too very busy with each other .
that is it secret for survives .
beginning never a war ... and certainly not against yourself .
this film has been based on truth facts .
whereas independent arms trafficking ears further to try thrive , to be s worldly largest ... weapon suppliers , v. s. , great britain , russia , france and china .
they are also the five members who permanent take part in beveiligingsvergaderingen . www . rdwsubs . com
