our world has gone now .
smashed by the wars .
now i am the keeper of his body , bound here in the egyptian ways ,
i followed him as pharaoh , and now ruled 40 years .
i am the victor , but what does it all mean .
when there is no one left to remember ,
the great cavalry charge of or the mountains of the hindu kush ,
when we crossed the 100, 000 man army into india .
he was a god or as close as anything i' ve ever seen .
tyrant they yelled so easily , i laugh .
no tyrant ever gave back so much .
and what do they know of the world, these school boys , it takes strong man to rule .
alexander was more, he was permitheous , a friend to man ,
he changed the world , before him , there were tribes , and after him ,
always possible ,
there was sudden near sense the world , could be ruled by one king , be better for all .
18 great alexandrias he built , it was an empire not of land and gold , but of the mind , lennox civilization , oakland , tour ,
how can i say it ?
how can i tell you what it is like to be young ?
to dream , big dreams , to believe when alexander looked you in the eye ,
you could do anything , anything .
in his presence , by the light of apollo , we were better than ourselves .
truly , i' ve known many great men in my life , but only one colossus ,
and only now in old do i understand who this force of nature really was .
or do i ?
did such a man as alexander exist ?
of course not , they idolize him , make him better than he was .
men , all men reach in full , reach in full .
the east , the fast persian empire , ruled almost all the known world .
the west , once great greek city states , thieves , athens , sparta , had fallen from pride .
for a hundred years now , the persian kings had bribed the greeks with their gold ,
to fight as mercenaries , it was philip , the one eyed , that changed all this .
united tribes of illiterate sheep herders , from the high and low lands ,
with his blood and guts , he built a professional army ,
brought the devious greeks to their knees .
he then turned his eye on persia , where to as said the new great king to arise himself , on his thrown in babylon , feared philip .
it was from these loins of war , that alexander was born , in pella .
pella macedonia
some called his mother queen olympius , or sorcerous , and said that alexander was the child of dienisious , others zeus , but truly there was not a man in macedonia who didn' t look at father and son , side by side , and wonder .
& trust the ones who give you love & & life has just begun son . &
her skin is water , her tongue is fire .
she' s your friend
take it ,
if you hesitate she will strike ,
remember that , never hesitate .
yes , they are like people , you can love them for years , feed them , nurture them , but still , they can turn on you .
come ...
babarian , philip makes a mockery of dienisious every night .
women , are the only ones that know dienisious .
my little achilles .
stay alexander down .
what is it you ..
6 months to this day .
no no , not here .
drop it to your king ,
king of what , sheepherders men .
* laughing *
i , am of achilles royal blood .
well achilles runs in my veins .
your are nothing but a drunkin whore .
curse the very name of you .
you think people respect you , you think they dont know your bastards ?
damn your sorcereous soul , keep him here like one of your snakes ,
i told you not , i told you not !
it' il be me .
i will not .
you will be me or i' il kill you , with my own hands .
stop stop stop
your majesty no , in the name of god .
he will never be yours , never ! in my womb i carried my avengin .
8 years later
in the world he grew up to , i have come to believe it wasn' t friendship , that alexander found his hamity .
fight , of a battle , taste , know the barbarian drive , courage wont be in the lining of your stomach ,
it' s in the heart of a man ,
we dont need to eat everyday or until your full , we dont need to lie in bed in the morning when you can have some good bean soup to sander ,
of your force night come on alexander , come on ,
whatever expects you as a king , just because of your father , the first rule of war is to do what you ask your men to do , no more no less .
that' s it , well done my student , good wrestling , that' s what i want , come come come ... you did well but you lost , now both of you will congratulate the other , good .
would you want me to let you win alexander ?
your right , but i promise you i will beat you one day hephaistion .
it was said later that alexander was never defeated except by hephaistion' s thighs .
although an inferior race , the persians control at least 4/ 5' s of the known world ,
but is it possible , the source of egypt' s mighty river nile , could rise in these distance mountains of the outer earth ?
if so , an experience navigator could find his way , here , by this river east , down into the great plains of india ,
out into the eastern ocean , and into the world , and by this route , up the nile , back to egypt , into the middle sea , and home , to greece .
now if only these frogs could look outward and act on their favorite position of the center ,
greece could rule the world .
why is it master , in myth these lands you speak of are known ,
india , where hericlees , and dienisious traveled .
all these men who went east , thesious , jason , achilles , were victorious .
from generation to generation there stories have been past on , why ?
unless there was truth to them .
tales or amazons ? no alexander , only common people believe these tales .
as they believe most anything .
we are here precisly to educate ourselves against such foolish passions .
but if we are superior to the persians as you say , why do we not rule them ?
it is , it has always been our greek dream to go east .
the east has a way of swallowing men and their dreams .
master , master ...
yes ?
master ?
out with it , out with it .
why are the persians so cool ?
that is not the subject for today neokus , but it is true , the oriental races are known for their barbarity , and their slavish devotion to their senses ,
excess in all things , is the undoing of men , that is why we greeks are superior ,
we practice control of our senses , moderation , we hope .
and what of achilles at troy master ?
was he not excessive ?
achilles simply lacks restraint he dominates other men so completely , that even when he withdraws from battle crazed with grief , over his dead lover procutules , he seriously endangers his own army ,
he is a deeply selfish man .
then would you say that the local achilles and procutules is a corrupting one ?
when men lie together in lust , it is a surrender to the passions , and does nothing for the excellence in us , nor does any other , excess kasander , jealousy among them , but when men lie together and knowledge and virtue are pass between them , that is pure , and excellent , when they compete to bring out the good , the best in each other , this is the love between men , that can build the city state and lift us from our frog bottom .
philip brought aristotle from athens to educate our rough people , and growing more ambitious he now planned the invasion of persia .
is that the best you can do back to the falinx with you ,
i' il ride him myself .
no one can ride that beast your majesty .
he' s been breeding far too often .
my noble king , he' s a high spirit , and worthy of philip of macedonia
why would i want such a beast , i already have a wife .
do i seem so old ?
broken neck comes free he' s too nervous for battle .
buy him for me father , i' il ride him .
and if you dont ?
i' il pay for him myself .
with what , your singing voice ?
i' il pay you .
i tell you the horse can' t be riden lad , he' s mind is broken .
he can be riden , by me .
if you can rule that horse i' il make him yours , at half the price .
that horse will kill him philip , will break the boy in two .
really ? perhaps you' il make a musician out of him yet .
the boy does not have the craft philip , he could hurt himself .
he will have to figure that out for himself , it' s time .
you do not like your shadow do ya ?
it is like a dark spirt coming up sketchy ,
see that' s us ,
it' s just a trick of apollos , he' s the god of , sun .
but i will show you how to out win him , you and me together .
osephilis , that is what i will call you , strong and stubborn ,
osephilis and alexander , come now , let us ride together .
ahhhh , he' s got some tight in em yet , , for zeus' s sake , he beat ya man .
now osephilles , show them .
my son , my son !
you remember achilles ?
he is my favorite ?
why ?
because he loved procutules and avenged his death .
and his fate ?
that he must die young , but with great glory .
did he have a choice ?
oh yes , live a long life but there would be no glory .
dream of glory alexander , your mother encourages you ,
there is no glory with out suffering , and this you will not allow .
one day i will be on walls like these .
permitheous stole the secret of fire and gave it to man ,
made zeus so angry , chained permitheous to a rock in the great carcasses , and each day , his eagle pecked out the poor man' s liver , each night it grew back again , so that it could be eaten the next day , miserable fate .
why ?
who knows these things , anyway ,
edipus , tore out his eyes ,
he found out , murdered his father , married his mother , knowledge that came too late ,
the deer , slaughtered her two children in vengence ,
and jason left her for a younger wife .
my mother would never hurt me .
never easy to escape our mothers alexander ,
all your life be ware of women , by far more dangerous than men .
ariclees , even after he accomplished his 12 labors ,
he was punished for madness , slaughtered his 3 children
poor ariclees, great ariclees , all great must come from loss ,
even you , the gods will one day judge partially .
when i' m king like you one day father .
do not rush the day boy , you risk all , my father threw me into battle before i knew how to fight ,
when i killed my first man he said " now you know " i hated him then ,
but i understand why now , a king isn' t born alexander ,
he is made by stealing , by suffering ,
a king must know how to hurt those he loves .
it is lonely , ask ariclees , ask any of them fate is cruel ,
no man or woman could be too powerful or too beautiful , without disaster be falling , they laugh when you rise too high ,
crush everything you built with the wind ,
the glory they give , in the ending they take away ,
they make of us slaves .
8 years later
pregnant so soon , the little whore ,
you will marry her in the spring , during the festival ,
and when her first son is born , her sweet uncle atilus ,
will convince philix to name the boy , his successor ,
with himself in regions .
and you , you will be sent on some impossible mission ,
against some monstrous northern tribe , to be mutilated ,
in one more meaningless battle over cattle ,
and i no longer queen , will be put to death with your sister ,
and the remaining members of our family .
i wish , sometimes you could see the light mother ,
the truth is he has taken nothing from you that you have not been without .
the only way is to strike , announce your marriage to a macedonian ,
now with get the child of pure blood , he would be one of them not mine ,
and he would have no choice but to make you king , there is still king henni .
perfect , if your father that pig had not ravaged her .
say nothing more of my father , do you hear me say nothing .
your right , forgive me , a mother loves too much .
who shall i sing to at night anymore ?
i wish , i wish we could spend more time together ,
like we used to , when you were the sweetest boy .
there' s never been time mother , since i was a child , i have been groomed to be ever the best .
aaw my poor child , like achilles , cursed by your greatness .
take my strength .
you must never confuse your feelings with your duties alexander .
a king must make public gestures for the common people .
i know , but you will be 19 this summer , and the girls already say you dont like them ,
you like hephaistion more ,
i understand it is natural for a young man ,
but if you go to asia with out leaving your successor you risk all .
hephaistion loves me , as i am , not who .
loves ?
loves ?
in the name of dienisious , understand how philix thinks for your own sake ,
your life hangs in the balance , he' s spies are inside your closest ...
stop !
i am his only worthy son , you crazed woman , he would never hurt me ,
even if had a boy , he would be 20 before he would let him rule .
yes , and you would be 40 , old and wise , like potterman and philix young son would be 20 ,
like you now , but raised by him , his blood , he will never give you the thrown now alexander , never .
ahhh , come alexander drink this as only thirst can quench sorrow .
there is only one thing better than winning a battle son ,
and that' s the taste of a new woman you will find it far sweeter than
alexander , alexander found you the right girl ?
what' s your name ?
i' m chikini .
huh , what' s your name ?
chikini .
i love you my limp .
and i love you clopis .
would you prefer a seat cleitis ?
* lot of drunken talk *
a toast , a toast !
i drink to our great friends and to our new union ,
macedonia and greece equals in greatness ,
to philip our king , without home this union could not be possible .
come leave some damn air in the hole ?
and last i drink to the king' s marriage to my niece a macedonian queen we can be proud of .
to philip and and to their legitamate sons .
you son of a dog , come then .
this is my wedding not some public brawl , apologize by zeus before you dishoner me .
he' s afraid the man who called my mother a whore and me a bastard , and i dishoner you ?
you listen like your mother , atlas is my family now the same as you .
then choose your relatives more carefully , don' t expect me to sit here and watch you shame yourself .
shame ?
he insults me !
i insult you ?
am i not fit to ground my mother walks on ?
you dog , questioning your queen .
shame ?
i have nothing to be ashamed of you arrogant brat , i' il marry the girl if i want ,
and i' il have as many sons as i want and there' s nothing you or your harpy mother could do about it .
why drunken man must you think everything i do and say comes from my mother ?
because i know her heart by hera .
and i see her in your eyes , you come with this thrown too much , now we all know that she will for the mother of yours , wants me dead , well you can both dream boy .
come philip , this is the wine talking , leave the boy , wait til morning .
no , i command you , apologize to your kinsmen .
apologize !
no kinsmen to me .
goodnight old man , and when my mother re marries , i' il invite you to her wedding .
you bastard .
you will obey me , come here .
and this is the man who is going to take you from greece to persia ?
he can' t even make it from one couch to the next .
get out of my palace , your exiled you bastard , banished from the land , your not welcomed here ,
you' re no son of mine .
everything , suddenly changed for him ,
his father king philip was murdered , and alexander 20 became the new ruler of macedonia .
and breaking their treaties with us , dismissing alexander as an untried boy ,
several greek city states , rose up in revolk much to persia' s delight ,
and have sponsored by their gold .
and truly alexander could love like no other , but to betray him was to rouse a vast and frightening anger , several thousand of the men of their tragic city thieves and sold the survivors into slavery .
this has intended stund and defeated the greeks , and though in the end they treated most populations with magnimity it is these exceptions , thieves persia and others ,
that are always remembered by those who hate alexander and all that he stood for .
at 21 , alexander invaded asia with an army of 40, 000 trained men .
and liberating one city state after the other , he conquered all of western asia , south to egypt , where he was declared pharoah of egypt , worshiped as a god .
it was in egypt that the respected oracle siwah declared him the .
he finally provoked himself to battle in the heart of the persian empire near babylon .
gaugamela , persia
it was mad , 40, 000 of us against 250, 000 barbarians .
it was the day alexander had waited for all his life .
alexander son of a god , it was a myth of course , at least it started as a myth ,
i know , i was there , i saw his eyes .
there at the crack of the persian line , we' il go for the head .
kill their eyes ?
the gods have brought him to us at last ,
if i die , it' s one macedonian , but the persians they can not move with out authorized his command .
here , right here we cut the croak of the persian army .
this is madness , you will never get withing 100 paces of him .
have you seen the sheer size of his force alexander ?
not if you hold him on the left , my brave parmanion , with your son , for just 1 , 2 hours tomorrow .
and you unbreakable antagonist the center falinx
if you pin them on the walls of here in the center , their cavalry will follow me out to the right , and when bold cassander breaks , stretching their left , a hole will open ,
then i and my cavalry , a revered cleitis , and will strike through that gap , and deal the death blow to the head .
alexander even with luck , timing , the gods , we must route them tomorrow , destory their army completely ,
or we be picked apart by bandit tribes on a long journey home .
right .
you speak of home and retreat , but do you understand how many on , babylon is my new home .
alexander if we must fight , do so with stealth , use your numbers well , we should attack tonight when they least expect us .
i didn' t cross asia to steal this victory cassander .
no , you are too honorable for that , no dad influence from sleeping with tales of troy under your pillow .
but your father was no lover of homeless .
the lands west of the the hand of his daughter in marriage , since when has a greek ever been given such honors ?
this are not honors , are many of the bribes , the greeks have accepted too long ,
do you forget that the man who murdered my father lies across the valley floor .
come alexander , we are still not really sure if it was persian gold behind the assassination .
your father taught you never to surrender your reason , to your passion , now i urge you to regroup ,
fall back to the coast , raise a larger force .
i would if i were permanian , but i am alexander , and no more than earth has 2 sons will asia bear two kings , these are my terms , and if arias isn' t a coward who hides behind his men , then he will come to me tomorrow ,
and when he bows down to greece ,
alexander will be merciful .
and lads feast tonight , for tomorrow we will die in hades .
to whom do you pray ?
phobos .
fear .
or so for dorius .
i have come to believe that fear of death drives all men ephistian ,
this we didn' t learn at school board , it is the cause of all fortunes .
so , mighty
your majesty .
are you ready for tomorrow' s dawn ?
ah , it' s been too long coming if you ask me , i mean
good , fear makes men fight better .
post your centurions alert keep them rested well .
don' t you worry general , i have been known to sleep with my eyes open as a baby' s ass .
only cause someone might steal his loot sire .
after tomorrow even the thrifty among you will shall be kings .
god be with us your majesty .
will stay in the ground , with the persian blood of the king .
i alwasy believed alexander but this seems so much bigger than us .
did die before achilles when they stood side by side at seed of troy ?
petropolis died first .
if you do , if you were to fall ephistian macedonia would lose a king , i will avenge you and follow you down to the house of death .
i would do the same .
on the eve of battle it is hardest to be alone .
then perhaps , perhaps this is farewell then , my alexander .
fear not ephistian , we are at the beginning .
blood makes the world crazed , blood makes the rain fall , blood makes the earth grow .
in blood all man are born and died .
blood is the food of the gods below .
help me osiphilis , today we ride to our destiny .
i remember you the day you took the seed tower at tire , you were a giant , and today how will you fight ?
how far was it you threw your men resting at the last olympic games ?
will you match it with your spear ?
and tamander son of men under , a great soldier to my father , i still mourn your brother odius ,
who died so bravely at helicarnusus , what an honor of family you descend from tamander ,
you fight for them today .
you have all honored your country and your ancestors ,
and now we come to this most distant place in asia ,
where across from us has gathered a vast army ...
but ask yourselves , who is this great king , who pays assassins in gold coins to murder my father , our king , in a most dispicable , and cowardly manner , and who is this great king dorius who enslaves his own men to fight ?
who is this king , but a king of air ?
these men do not fight for their homes .
they fight because this king tells them they must .
we are here today , as macedonian free men .
some of you , perhaps myself ,
will not live to see the sun set over these mountains today ,
but i say to you , what every warrior has known since the beginning of time ,
conquer your fear , and i promise you will conquer death .
you will answer , i was here this day at gagilaya , for the freedom and glory of greece .
zues be wlth us !!
where does he go ?
don' t know majesty .
he makes a mistake .
yes there king .
be brave men .
macedonian left
prepare to repult centurions .
alexander !!
go ...
we must fall back to the gally .
come ride , ride !!!
break through the hole !
* instructions *
go tell alexander yourself , and if he wont listen then survive me , and avenge his betrayal .
pay attention lad , your father still watches over you !
dorius !!!
ride your horses !
dorius !!!!
we can reach those by sunset ,
go catch their eyes by dawn .
releases the horses .
alexander , alexander my father is lost , they have overrun us their into the baggage train .
is crumbling .
ah !!!!
alexander if you chase them , you risk losing your army here .
and if we capture him we gain an empire .
you can run to the ends of the earth you coward ,
but you will never run far enough .
you bleed free my lord , may i tend to your wound ?
no , atlas not now , it' s far worse than me , go to them , help them .
your majesty ,
your very brave , what should i call you ?
gloucus my king .
gloucus and where is your home ?
elyria .
let your body go lose , think about be brave again gloucus and you will live on in glory .
alexander .
persian empire , the greatest the world had yet known was destroyed .
and alexander at 25 was now king of all .
alexander once said to me , we are most alone when we are with the myths .
babylon , persia
and thus it came to pass in a dream as mythical to all greeks as achilles defeating the trojans ,
that there is one glorious moment in time ,
alexander was loved by all .
but in the end i believed babylon was a far easier to enter than she was to leave .
imagine the minds that can see this , with architects and engineers like these ,
we can build cities such as we only dreamed .
aristotle may have called them barbarians but he never saw babylon .
we have enough gold here to support another 3 generations of macedonian armies .
macedonia will soon corrupt cassander , wealth in great quantities brings the crows .
not for the men who fought i trust ?
we will pay them well .
but not as mercenaries for future services .
you sound like philip .
philip never saw babylon .
look , he didnt advise him .
alexander , i know you think me a stiff old sog , but whatever our differences , know this day ,
your father would be very proud of you .
thank you ,
and i ask you to forgive me , my own anger my pride ,
they too blind me .
yes , the grandsons of goat herders we now rule 2 million square miles .
not like we are giving it all away .
but , none of you fear that this straight fortune may drive us all to destruction .
you over value us , for as long as dorius breathes he is the legitamite king of asia ,
and i but the king of air .
but he has no power alexander , he is lost in the mountains wit no
as long as he is lost he can be believed in .
only when he is found will be decided .
seems you already made up your mind alexander .
we must finish what we failed to do at parmenium we must hunt dorius if it be to the ends of earth .
that was not your father' s mission .
and i am not my father .
come on , have you so quickly forgotten , fortune favors the bold .
by the gods what is this ?
no wonder dorius fled , he had this to come back to .
i venture one for every night of the year .
help me aphroditi , how will i ever go back to after this ?
i advise you not to touch here i' il take care of it for you .
aristotle was perhaps present , with these images foolish with their beauty and degrade our souls .
great king alexander .
the princess of 1000 troses . and ellis daughter of the formerly great king dorius .
noble alexander .
i come to beg for the lives of my sisters , my mother , my grandmother .
you are not wrong princess , he too is alexander .
please , i plead for my families lives , sell me as a slave great king .
look now , into my eyes , princess , and tell me how would you like to be treated ?
as i am , a princess .
then so be it , you and your family shall be treated as my family ,
you shall live in this palace as long as you choose ,
have you any other request ? for me my noble princess ?
no , everything i wish ,
i have ...
requested .
you truly are a queen .
yes , she would be a perfect match for you but you do nothing .
3 months you have been in babylon , and leave me and
at the mercy of your enemies , of which you have many ,
and accustom now to the part you have given him ,
i must watch him grow stronger .
i am certain that he communicates secretly with parmenian ,
who is dangerous , but beware most of all of those closest to you ,
they are like snakes and can be turned .
general
cassander is and tibiders son , even cleitis your fathers favorite ,
anton your friend yes , but beware of men who think too much , they blind themselves .
only ephistian do i leave out , but all of them you may preach while your mother and yourself ,
you live in generous poverty , why wont you ever believe me ?
it is only a dark mind like mine that can know these secrets of the heart ,
for they are dark alexander , so dark but in you , the son of zeus lies the light of the world ,
your companions will be shadows in the underworld ,
and you are a name living forever in history ,
as the most glorious shining light of youth ,
forever young , forever inspiring ,
never will there be an alexander like you ,
alexander the great .
remember bring me to babylon as you promised ,
i can only help you for they know if they harm you ,
they will face my wrath , as queen of babylon .
that is a high ransom she charges for 9 months lodging in the womb .
bring her alexander , it will give her such joy .
and on the cracked mirror of her dreams .
stay with me tonight ephistian .
i will take my own bath , thank you .
the generals question your obsession with arias ,
they say it was never meant for you to be king of asia .
naturally , they want only to return to their homes rich with gold .
but i' ve seen the future ephistian , i' ve seen it 1000 times , 1000 faces ,
these people want , need change .
aristotle was wrong about them .
how so ?
look at those we have conquered , they leave their dead unburied ,
they smash their enemies skulls and drink from it' s dust , they mate in public ,
what can they think , or sing or write , when none can read ,
but as alexander' s army they can go , where they never thought possible ,
they can soldier work in the cities , the alexandrias egypt to the ocean ,
we can connect these lands of and the people ,
some say these alexandrias are becoming extensions of alexander himself ,
they draw people into the cities so as to make slaves .
but we freed them ephistian from the persia where everyone lived as slaves ,
to free the people of the world , such would be beyond the glory of archilles ,
beyond hericules , feet will rival pernithius , was always a friend to man .
remember the fates of these hereos , they suffered greatly .
no we all suffer , your father , mine ,
they all came to the end of their time ,
and in the end when its over all that matters is what you have done .
you once said the fear of death drives all men ,
are there no other forces ?
is there not love in your life ?
alexander ?
i wonder sometimes , if it is not your mother you run from ,
so many years , so many miles between you ,
what is it you fear ?
who knows these things ,
when i was a child my mother taught me to find my father weak ,
which am i ephistian ?
weak or divine ?
all i know is i trust only you in this world ,
i missed you , i need you ,
it is you i love ephistian , no other .
you still hold your head cocked ,
like that ,
i have stopped that .
no like a deer listening in the wind ,
you strike me still alexander ,
you have eyes like no other ,
ugh i sounded stupid as school boy ,
your everything i care for ,
and by the sweet breathe of aphroditi ,
i am so jealous of losing you to this world .
you want so badly .
you will never lose me ephistian ,
i will be with you always , until the end .
northeastern persia
the campaign in the northeastern persia turned into a hard gorilla war of almost 3 years .
we chased dorius toward but missed taking him by hours .
he was dying when we found him sire ,
he asked for water , he drank and died .
the great king dorius had been betrayed by his own commanders .
fully honoring his corpse ,
alexander hunted down these commanders to unknown lands .
crossing even beyond the river oxes , into .
we fought them as far as the unknown steps of ,
for only legend we hereos who once taught ,
the surveyors told us we were now in the borders of where europe and asia meet ,
in fact we were totally lost ,
here alexander founded his 10th alexandria , and settled it with veterans then women and any who would dare the frontier life ,
unable to accept defeat in any form ,
alexander persissted in breaking every tribe that resisted ,
until the day he received the head of his last enemy in surrender .
for alexander there could be no pretender to the thrown of asia ,
which now
it was here that alexander made one of his most mysterious decisions .
