calm ...
you' il feel more and more calm
now imagine a screen ...
a movie screen that opens before you
create on it , any place you like
concentrate on your breathing
helping your body to relax ... feel at peace
you don' t have to change it .
just let it come and go
come and go ...
now ...
you are there
pay attention to the details
the colors
the textures
the light
the temperature .
feel the temperature
allow this calm view to develop before you
the feeling of peace is infinite ...
it' s raining cats and dogs
are you sure this is closed
are you more calm now ?
well , it' s not easy , with that view i have in front of me
what view ?
i can see through your skirt
you are such a pig !
you know what , i won' t read you anymore .
besides , it' s almost time .
i' m going to pick her up
ok , i' il get up and prepare some coffee
would you like some music ?
ok , whatever is on
ok , i' il leave you with your wagner
see you in a while
the sea inslde
julia , get in the car .
you' re going to freeze
you are gen , right .
i am marc , hello
and julia ?
it looks like galicia doesn' t like us
yeah , well , it' s february
how was your flight ?
fine .
we finally meet
would you mind coming with me in the car ?
we had agreed that only one person would come
yes , of course
and .. ?
oh , marc ?
he' s only here to take notes
ok .
do you trust him ?
yes .
well ... he works at the firm
look , i' m not sure if you are aware of the step that ramon has to take
of course i know the step ramon has to take .
we' ve talked about it
today it' s you , then its the press , then it' s the television
ramon is afraid that this could be taken in the wrong direction
all i can tell you is that i' ve come to do things as best as possible
i hope so ...
and i remind you that for me this is really important
not only professionally ...
believe me i understand ramon very well
hello hello
my name is julia
you are the lawyer
this is manuela .
ramon' s sister in law
do you want help ?
no , no .
it' s fine
they' re here
hello hello
excuse me for not giving you my hand
how come ?
they tell me you are a little nervous
well , let' s see .
the first thing is breakfast what time ?
9 : 30 .
don' t think that i like to wake up early
after that , i listen to the radio for bit what do you like to listen to ?
a little of everything .
mostly debates you like debates ?
yes , yes .
i like the party
see .
this is my personal computer
did you design it ?
yes , i like inventions .
my father or my nephew builds them
you are so serious all of a sudden
why dying ?
well , let' s see .
i want to die because for me , living like this ... is not worthy
i can understand if other tetraplegic could feel offended when i say life like this is not worthy
but i don' t judge anyone
who am i to judge those that want to live ?
that' s why i ask not to be judged nor the person that helps me to die
and do you think someone is going to help you ?
well , that would depend on the ones taking the decision .
if they manage to conquer their fears
it' s not such a big deal .
death has always been there and always will be
in the end we all get there .
all of us .
it is a part of us
why are they so surprised because i say i want to die ?
as if it is contagious
if we finally go to trial , they will ask you why you don' t seek alternatives to your disability
why do you reject the wheel chair ?
to accept the wheelchair would be like accepting breadcrumbs of what used to be my freedom
look , you are sitting there , less than 2 meters away
what are 2 meters ?
an insignificant trip for any human being
well , for me , those 2 meters , necessary to get to you and being able to touch you , is an impossible journey ... ... a chimera , a dream
that' s why i want to die
the three hours have passed , ramon
she has to change my posture
would you mind waiting downstairs ?
he called us a year ago .
he wanted us to , literally , help him die
i told him that we could provide psychological help , legal support .
but we wouldn' t put the cyanide in his mouth
he got very mad .
he called us liars .
i had to hang the phone
a few days later he called again , more calm .
i was surprised at how decided he was
has he ever hesitated ?
never
that is very important
and how long has he been like this ?
26 years
his mother used to take care of him but when she died , his sister in law took over
how do you feel ?
fine , this arm ... a little higher
i' m going to change the catheter
not now manuela it' s just a moment .
let them wait
she is married to jose , ramon' s brother
they live of the farm and a little orchard they have
and what do they think about this ?
ideas are free .
but i think that it' s not right
but why not ?
i want what' s best for him .
everyone in this house wants that
then why would he want to die ?
i cannot get that into my head
it' s not rational , as he says
i cannot give it to him and i don' t give my authorization to do it in this house
hello
don' t leave that there javi !
oh come on mom !
take it to your room
your uncle wants you to check the machine
the bag ...
yes !
what' s wrong ?
the roller is a little stuck
didn' t you have an examn today ?
no .
and the lawyer
she is with gen and grandpa .
he took them to the beach
they might end up in corunna .
with that head of him
don' t talk like that about your grandfather
his mind is completely gone
of course , he is old , what do you want ?
well , that he stays out of the way
he is at home all day ...
as if we need him
what ?
look , one day ...
i don' t know when , maybe in a long time ...
one day you are going to regret so much , so much what you just said .
that you' il want the ground to swallow you
but why ?
one day , you' il see .
one day ...
here the ocean is very treacherous .
those who dare bathe in it , have to be very careful
my son jumped from here .
i don' t know what he was thinking .
he jumped exactly when the water was receding and he hit his neck against the sand
it' s is very very sad .
god wants him to keep on living .
but you know that he doesn' t want to live anymore
but , he never told me anything , he never told me ... he never told me anything
look , we will win heaven , because we have spent our whole lives in hell
i am taping this so the judges or politicians or whoever has to decide understand better ...
apparently they can' t identify with the psychological pain of the person , then maybe this way they' il understand that this is not life
why do you smile so much ramon ?
when you can' t escape and depend constantly on others
you learn to cry by laughing
good morning
does ramon sampedro live here ?
yes , what do you want ?
i was taking a ride and thought about visiting him
i heard lots of people come to see him
ok
just a little while
my name is rosa
come closer
where are you from ?
boiro .
i came on my bike
oh god , i feel like such a fool
why ?
well , because i don' t know what to say .
since i don' t know you
don' t worry about that .
i can' t do anything else .
please , have a seat .
why did you come ?
you' re not making it easy .
what do you do ?
i work in a conserve factory and i' m also a radio host at radio boiro , wednesdays and fridays
so , maybe i' ve heard you sometime yes ?
but it' s only an amateur thing ... no , you are pretty good yes , apparently , eh ?
the thing is to get started , after that no one can stop me
i have 2 little sons your husband ?
no .
well , yes , but we left him are you alone now ?
let' s see .
i had a boyfriend , the father of my youngest son ... but he also left me ...
so now i' m alone but happy
i was asking in case i had any chance ...
why do you laugh ?
sorry ...
it' s ok , i was joking
besides , i don' t think i' d be willing to take on two children , i have enough with my nephew
i saw you on tv the other day hmmm ... see , now we are getting closer
closer to what ?
to the reason why you came
i heard what you said and then i saw your eyes , which are really pretty
thanks
and i thought , those eyes full of life !
why would someone with those eyes want to die
look , we all have problems sometimes and we don' t have to run away of them , you know ?
no , i don' t run away of my problems ... yes , of course you do .
that' s why i wanted to come
what for ?
to give you reasons to live
to tell you that life ...
life what ?
is worth it
let' s see , did you come here to see me or to convince me ?
no , i came because i want to be your friend ramon
if you want to be my friend , rosa , you should start by respecting my will
how can you be so closed ?
don' t judge me .
don' t judge me rosa .
not in my own house
or do you want me to judge you ?
do you want me to judge you ?
why don' t we talk about the real reason you came
why don' t we talk about the fact that you are clearly a frustrated woman ... that woke up this saturday looking for ways of giving reason to your own life
yes , run .
you that can .
thanks a lot .
so you don' t want me to play you anything ?
no , dear .
just stay as cheerful .
good night good night
well , it' s 8 : . 45 and here we are at radio boiro .
i remind you that you can call and request your favorite song
before i continue ... i would like to dedicate the next song to someone that maybe is listening tonight
i know he listens to the radio a lot
i would love it for him to call me someday and ask for a song
although i know he won' t because ... the last time we saw each other we didn' t end up in good terms
but for what it' s worth , i' d like to tell him i' m sorry
i' m sorry i judged you ramon , i am such a fool and i can' t help it
enough ... for you my friend , ramon , " negra sombra "
yes ?
hello
gen !
how are you ?
well , still at the office .
you are giving us too much work , ramon
i' m just kidding
hey , the report was spectacular .
we have received a lot of support calls
this will be really great for the trial if you say so ...
oh , come on !
you have to improve that mood , otherwise we won' t be able to do anything
you knew we had to do this .
yes , i know , i know
julia , the lawyer , wants to see you again and this time longer
has she fallen in love with me ?
you wish handsome ! besides , she is married
no , she says she needs to know you better to prepare the case
that' s what they all say
wait ... 2 minutes and i' m there
hey , did you know that the guy that came with her wants to go out with me
are you leaving me for a lawyer ?
no
you are missing on it
i see it quite well
your leg
well , yes .. it moves
let' s see ... this is going to be easy .
you only need to answer with your heart
with the head , you mean ..
with the head .
you don' t mind if i record it , right ?
let' s begin with your youth , before your accident .
what did you do then ?
is that necessary ?
i had forgotten all about it .
is your memory that bad ?
no .
i just thought we would talk about my suicide demand
we will ramon .
it' s just that it' s very important that the judge identifies with you and that he understands you .
for that i need to know who is ramon sampedro and who he was
that way , you will use it against me later .
you are such a galician !
i' m your lawyer , i' m on your side ok
when i was 19 , i packed my things and i went around the world
i was doing that for a couple of years , until the accident
wait , wait .
you went around the world at only 20 years ?
you just don' t know how .
ship mechanic .
i always tell my nephew .
to travel without money , become a sailor .
what ?
looking for proof ?
no , it' s that i can' t see a single picture of you around here
how were you in your younger years ?
why ?
am i so ugly now , or what ?
ok , i won' t ask you anything else .
that' s it
you don' t like looking into the past , right ?
of course not , i look into the future .
and what is the future for you ?
death , same as for you
don' t you think about death ?
i' m not the only one who thinks about it .
yes , yes .
of course i think about it
i just try that it doesn' t become my only thought
tomorrow it' s going to rain
tomorrow it' s going to rain
i think he whistled
i didn' t hear a thing yes , he did
what do you want ?
the game already started
but you know i don' t like soccer
why don' t you watch it downstairs
hey , if you want to convince me you need to give me a rational justification
the " depor " is playing
that is not a rational justification
but it is important why ?
because it is decisive for the league .
if they lose this one , they can only make it to second place
ok , turn it on
can you see it ?
yes
did you hear him whistle too ?
ramon told me you asked about the pictures
yes
there' s got to be one somewhere
i' il look for them tomorrow
thanks
if you need more blankets , look in the closet
in june , it is still cold at night
manuela ...
no , no , no yes , yes , yes
i cannot accept this , i can' t
manuela , i' m going to stay a couple of days .
the least i can do is contribute with something
but added to the fact that you are doing it for free
i' m doing this because i want to .
manuela , please ...
ok .
if you need anything , please let me know
thanks
what are you plotting over there ?
nothing
it' s a shame you can' t see the sea from here
is better like that
that way i can see it when i want to
how come ?
when i want to , i concentrate and take a step towards the sea
flying
i imagine that the sea means a lot to you
well , the sea gave me life and then took it away
i don' t know if that means anything
give me some details about that day .
the day that your life changed , ok ?
whatever you say .
ok , first ... ... when did it happen ?
august 23rd of ' 68
you still lived with your parents ?
yes .
i was still young
were you alone at the beach that day ?
no , i was with some friends , town' s folk
but how is it that someone so familiar with the sea didn' t calculate the receding
i was distracted
distracted ?
yes , i was thinking about things
and ?
ok .
leave it alone .
it doesn' t matter
i can see you don' t want to talk about it either
no .
i' m just remembering
when i realized i was in the air , jumping on an almost empty pool
were you left unconscious ? no .
i was just there ... face down
floating
you know it' s true what they say about those that are about to die that all of a sudden you get to see the most important moments of your life
that happened to me
and what did you see ?
they say that those that drown , after all the air has been expelled , die instantly
a sweet death .
i should have died then
do you still see all these people ?
some i do , some i don' t
who is this girl ?
some girl
well , she appears in many pictures
she lived in town .
can i have a puff ?
do you smoke ?
from time to time in case it kills me but nothing ...
she was my girlfriend your girlfriend ?
and what happened to her ?
there was a time when she used to go to the hospital .
one day she said something foolish about getting married
and i told her to get out of there , try to resume her life the best way she could and that she should forget about me
but , did you love her ?
that was not the issue
how come ?
the issue was if i wanted to love her in this condition
are you telling me you refuse to love because ...
because i can' t love
just like that
so , what i have to tell the judge is that , in your opinion , tetraplegics have no right to fall in love
but who' s talking about tetraplegics ?
i' m talking about me , ramon sampedro
there are other ways of making love
yes of course
has any girl kissed you in the past 27 years ?
now you are going to show me how , no ?
the girl from borio is here the girl from borio ?
christian , i told you to come here rosa !
hi ramon i told you to come here !
leave him , it' s ok .
are you good or bad ?
bad .
then we will get along fine
i' m julia i' m rosa , nice to meet you
i' m sorry to have interrupted you
i' il go for a while and leave you alone
how are you ?
fine
i hope you are not here to give me some of those reasons to live you always bring
no .
no way .
well , i don' t know ...
i wanted to see you .
and wanted you to meet my sons
that' s better
christian , behave yourself .
we are not at home .
this is samuel .
sami , say hello
hi , sami .
why are you in bed ?
because he can' t move , i already explained it to you
is it true you can' t feel a thing ?
what' s wrong with you now ?
are you hot ?
it' s just that with this weather you never know .
we are on strike because there' s been a month since they paid us .
so it' s like sunday for us
i made the breakfast , we took the bus and we came to see you
what happened ?
nothing
samuel , why are you crying now ?
manuela ...
what do you think about all this ?
tell me the truth
what do i think about what ?
that your brother in law wants to die
that' s what he wants
ok , but ... ... but you .
what would you want ?
what would you prefer ?
what i prefer has no importance
ramon wants to die .
everything is quite clear for me
would you like to see something ?
something ?
yes , come
christian , leave that alone leave me alone !
i' m going whip your ass ...
almost all of them are poems
i never threw anything away
i couldn' t do it .
it takes a lot of effort for him to write them
and his handwriting ...
look ...
i never saw such a beautiful handwriting
ok .
i' il be downstairs manuela
it' s going to take me a while to read all of this
would you mind telling ramon that ...
that you went to the beach ... to take a walk thanks
of course it is the first and the last time i bring you here
but mom , that guy is faking it the last time !
did she tell you when she would be back ?
just to take a walk
that way you can take a nap
you can' t complain why ?
not a minute passes by that a woman comes into this house .
are you building a harem ?
manuela , you know i' m only married to one
yes , with death
do you want anything else ?
no
they told me you were here .
and i came flying
manuela ...
hi
how was the walk ?
i' ve been reading ramon
i' ve been reading all that you have done .
you know what ?
what you have written ... ... is wonderful
so ... you are not only a lawyer , but also a writer
ok .
make fun of me .
but i tell you that this can be published
of course it can be published .
nowadays you can publish almost anything
i don' t see a better way to support your demand
it' s your voice
look julia , this was more clear at the beginning
you came here with a purpose , to help me
instead of that , you start questioning everything .
looking for reasons ...
you get inside my feelings ...
do you want me to leave ?
what i want right now is a cigarette , please
sure .
i' il go get them
julia , what happened ?
are you alright ?
manuela !
it' s not about what happened , but about what could happen .
because ... one day ... it' s the legs
but on another day ... ... you can go blind
and you can get better or not
i had been lucky so far
but then comes the next stroke and the next , and the next and no one can tell you when or how they are going to be
no one can tell what is going to be left of you if anything at all
your husband is very optimistic
and what is it good for ?
if there' s not even medication for this
what' s the point of standing up , working , getting your hopes up if at the end comes the next stroke and you fall again and you feel like shit again
is ridiculous
i called you because i want to become a member of dmd
i had thought about it 2 years ago when i was diagnosed but i backed out at the last moment
but not after this ... ... not after this .
i can' t take it anymore .
this isn' t life
does your husband know ?
i don' t know if i want to tell him you should
fear is a very powerful weapon .
fear doesn' t give you freedom to decide
what you are telling me right now is a product of that fear
maybe , later , you will back out , precisely out of fear
do not act based on fear
you are supposed to support people that want to commit suicide , right ?
no .
do you think that i go around telling people with problems that the best is to get out of the way
no .
what we support is freedom .
the freedom of those that want to live and those that want to die
it' s very different
and cadasll is a very bad disease , i agree
but i only ask that you think it over a little bit more
ramon gave me this for you
if you want , we can talk some other day about this
how do you think she' s doing ?
fine
really ?
i also think she is fine
ok .
nice meeting you thanks for coming
you are welcome
i' il stay a while longer ok
dear julia ... when gen told me that a lawyer wanted my case there was something that influenced my decision and it was the fact that the lawyer suffered a degenerative disease
i thought that only someone in that condition could really understand mine
and shared my hell
now i know that living in that hell is sometimes worth it , if one gets to meet people like you
lt' s worth it to have shared a cigarette with them or , like right now , caressing them even if its just by writing something foolish like this
and talking about foolishness , i' m correcting my writings
with the hope that you will come soon and give me a hand
for now , my nephew javi is helping me by copying them on his computer
for the rest , life continues just the same , you know
manuela kept the whole month covering me so next year doesn' t catch me off guard
javi keeps fighting with his grandpa and sometimes i make up little chores so they spend more time together
this month some friends came to visit .
some of them have been doing it for 25 years and that keeps surprising me
they enjoy telling me their stories
do you remember rosa ?
the girl from the conserve factory .
l think she found some kind of refuge here
the other day she wanted to help manuela to change my clothes , and they ended up arguing
i proved again that when you depend on someone for everything , you lose your privacy
well ... i hope to keep my little kingdom in order until you can cheer me up with your presence
a big hug .
what' s going on ?
let' s see .
what does it say here ?
no es asi la vida que va "
no sir .
it has to say " no es as la vida .
qu va ! " ( life is not like that .
no way ! )
no yes .
and that " aqui " has accent
that " aqui " has accent .
do you see it ?
right there .
death is my friend " , where' s the comma ?
what are they teaching you in school ?
you have to pay attention to what i tell you
even your grandpa would do it better
look javi , if this is the way you are going to help i' d rather not want it , ok ?
because you make me work twice as much
give me the stick .
give me the stick
pay a little more attention , ok ?
javi , what happened ?
nothing
dear ramon ... please forgive me for taking so long to answer your letter
but the doctors have limited me the use of the computer and in general , any activity that doesn' t make me use my legs
they assure me that i' il be able to walk again but they say that i shouldn' t continue with your case
in the physical therapy room there' s a huge window
sometimes i imagine that i go through it and fly , like you , over barcelona
i reach the sea and keep flying until i can only see that endless line of water
and think , foolish me , that if you do the same from corunna , maybe you' il go around the world again
and we end up finding each other in some part of the planet
i identify with you when you mention the lack of freedom and privacy
i try to bear with it , mainly for my husband who takes care of me with much dedication
but at the same time , i refuse to fall into this inertia where i just can be grateful for what is given because i have no other choice but to accept it
i wish i' il be able to see you in a couple of months
and i' il keep my promise of helping you with the book
until then receive my thanks and a hug from a very good friend
i knew this could happen , i knew it .
we are going to have to try again
no marc , how can you say that we have to try again ?
as if justice is so swift in this country
no .
and now i am the only one who has to tell him
the demand of the tetraplegic ramon sampedro requesting euthanasia was rejected yesterday by the tribunals due to defects in its form
the sentence says that the judicial process should have been started in corunna where he resides , and not in barcelona
many voices have been raised due to this case among them is priest francisco de galdar tetraplegic like ramon
ramon says he doesn' t want to live anymore , but i wonder isn' t it possible that ramon is asking some kind of attention , from society , from all of us .
what is he talking about ?
maybe it' s that the people that surround him don' t provide the love or support that he needs
that moron
couldn' t it be possible , that what ramon is asking for , is more love ?
i would really like to talk to him and convince him that there are many reasons to keep on living
aren' t you going to school ?
i hope you are happy now !
our whole family humiliated on television
but keep it up , keep it up .
until our faces fall off from embarrassment
and you dad ?
aren' t you going to tell him anything ?
don' t involve dad in this .
whatever you have to tell me , do it and be done with it
i' m going to tell you something ramon .
i am the older brother
listen to me , listen to me for a moment
what if you have an accident tomorrow and you die ?
have you thought about it ?
what would happen to me ?
i would have to take care of the family , right ?
of your wife , your son , dad ...
with that miserable pension of mine
if i stay alive , i' il make things a lot more difficult
i' m going to tell you something ramon .
i am the older brother
i am the older one here .
and while i' m alive , no one is getting killed here
no one in this house is getting killed .
keep that in your head , ramon
no one !
ok , son .
i' il leave see you tomorrow dad
i' il go
hi manuela , i came to see ramon
but , do you know what time it is ?
i know .
i couldn' t come sooner .
i' il explain it to ramon
i don' t think he' s in the mood for visits .
he had a bad day
why don' t you come tomorrow ?
or the day after ?
it' s important
the conserve factory is closing
things are not going well .
there' s no money to pay us
we will all be fired
there' s no right , damn it !
there' s no right .
forgive me ramon i have nothing to forgive
cry all you want .
i wish i could stand up and give you a hug
now that i had started to save some money
i wanted to buy you a telescope for the day of the wise men
you don' t have to buy me anything , rosa
i will get really mad if you spend one cent on me
but i really wanted to
i wanted to give you something but why do you have to give me anything ?
