pregnancy and abortion and art studied from a sexual standpoint , of course .
with the children gone , i don' t get to cook big meals anymore .
mac .
let' s get to the point .
this project is one of the greatest ever undertaken ... in connection with the human animal .
but without support from the rockefeller foundation , it will never get off the ground .
there are those who argue that ... sex is largely a matter of feelings and psychological attitudes things beyond your training as a zoologist .
that' s like saying a biochemist can' t analyze cooking because he' s not a chef .
it' s inane .
prok , come on .
that is , it' s really a very stupid way of looking at things .
one of the aims of science is to simplify .
the only way to study sex with any scientific accuracy ... is to strip away everything but its physiological functions .
and this team you' re proposing ?
i' il need two pair of hands at least both with advanced degrees in science .
and clyde martin , of course .
since you' re working in such a delicate area ... they need to be as clean as fuller brush men .
um
door to door salesmen , prok .
i think what dr. gregg is saying is that anyone involved in the project ... needs to have motives that are entirely pure and scientific and above reproach morally .
i couldn' t agree more .
ah .
now , there' s one more thing .
mm hmm ?
i hope you' re not planning to dwell on sexual oddities and perversions .
science is always interested in the rare .
yes , but it' s advisable to stick to what' s normal .
you don' t want to shake people up .
of course not .
i' m just a taxonomist a measurer .
i' m happy to leave the social policies to others .
ah .
ah .
well , that all sounds good .
very good .
so , if you' re ready ...
i' d like to begin with a few background questions .
no .
all wrong .
start by putting the subject at ease .
no .
all wrong .
start by putting the subject at ease .
would you care for a drink , mac ?
why , a glass of water would be very nice .
do anything fun this weekend ?
my daughters were in town , so i never stopped .
we had a marvelous meal saturday night .
really ?
what did you cook ?
i started with a little
see how much more relaxed she' s become ?
if you ease in with innocuous questions ... people forget they' re giving sex histories .
how did you first find out about masturbation ?
i invented it , son .
sometimes i tie a rope around my balls when i jerk off .
and what other masochistic acts do you enjoy ?
does that mean " queer " ?
how often do you have intercourse ?
two or three times .
a month ?
no , a day .
mmm .
how often do you reach orgasm ?
once .
a day ?
no .
only once .
about 20 years ago .
i was sitting on a piano stool listening to music .
mm .
oh , that' s good .
how old were you when you first engaged in sexual activity with a partner ?
fourteen .
how ?
with horse .
how often were you having intercourse with animals at age 14 ?
is true .
i fucked a pony .
you are genius .
how did you know ?
you just said you had sex with a horse .
no .
whores .
not horse .
whores .
do you find my answers typical ?
am i normal ?
am i normal ?
am i normal ?
yes .
i found a book in the dining room buffet ... under all the tablecloths , and i used to put it under my shirt ... and go into the bathroom and sit and read it .
but i was very frightened .
she told her mother that she didn' t like it .
how will i get it back ?
or maybe it was just her mother who didn' t like it .
before you know it , the police bangin ' on the front door .
hell , i didn' t even know it was illegal .
now i' m in here for five years .
one of them old gals caught me out in the field .
i guess i was about nine , 10 .
and she say she was gonna show me a new game called " puddin ' .
and , well , i guess i kinda liked it .
horses in the stable , and by watching them  [ continues , indistinct ]
the father said , " i put my roll of bills in your mother' s pocketbook ...
and i got you for change .
but it felt good .
i saw myself as nasty and terrible  [ man ]
i believe in god
i went to my mother
mama , is this true ?
do men put their thing in women ?
i only did it that one time .
if you weren' t a virgin, you were a fallen woman .
nobody would want you .
tested us for , uh , masculine and feminine traits .
they were both naked .
it was part of me .
you may kiss the bride .
did you hear professor kinsey found a place for us to live ?
oh , let me guess .
it' s just a few blocks from here .
how did you know ?
he likes to keep the troops in one place .
at least you passed the test .
what do you mean ?
well , he took your sex history , didn' t he ?
mm hmm .
well , he wouldn' t have let clyde marry you unless you fit in .
uh , didn' t clyde mention the calendars ?
prok likes for us to keep a record of our sexual activity .
tell them about that dream you had the other night .
mmm !
i was in the middle of the most intense erotic encounter
he wouldn' t say who with . when all of a sudden the doors flew open ... and there was prok standing there with that stern look of his .
gebhard , hurry up !
you' re wasting countless thousands of hours of project time .
well , needless to say , the mood was broken .
so he woke up , and i had to take over .
it was the quickest orgasm he ever had .
we' re trying to get pregnant again ... so , uh , there was no raincoat to dull the sensation .
oh .
do the kinseys know that you talk like this ?
uh
could i get a picture ?
um ... why don' t you call me when you get back from the honeymoon ?
we' il have a nice long lunch .
look at the birdie .
oh .
no , i' ve got the report .
thank you .
uh , often among boys who live in cities and towns , comma ...
less often among farm boys , period .
perhaps you wanna say " boys from small towns " ...
instead of" farm boys . " say say farm boys .
farm boys .
what' s the difference ?
he' s gonna rewrite it anyway .
henry .
everything looks in order here .
you can have either thanksgiving or christmas off .
your choice entirely .
do you need anything before i go ?
we' il never get this book done if people start leaving early .
i' il stay if you let me help you with these .
you don' t have the time to answer each one personally .
if people take the trouble to write , it' s the least i can do .
mrs. kinsey said to remind you to come home to eat .
and your father phoned again .
do you want me to talk to him ?
no .
i' il do it .
for thine is the kingdom ... and the power and the glory forever .
amen .
amen .
hello , mildred .
mr. morrissey .
come say hello to father .
i' m very sad for you , alfred .
well , it' s not as though i' il be alone .
my daughter' s too fat to get a husband .
and my son' s lost his business .
he moved back home .
the only one i got rid of is the big scientist .
now he' s working on some ... secret project .
he was always the secretive type .
would you really like to know what i' m working on , father ?
oh , listen to this .
he' s gonna tell me his big secret .
it' s really not a secret at all .
i' m trying to find out what people do sexually .
you heard right , father .
it' s a sex study .
well , what do you expect me to do , applaud ?
no .
but i would like you to contribute to the project .
oh .
and you first moved to hoboken at what age ?
sixteen .
could have done this interview without me , al .
i haven' t told you a damn thing you didn' t already know .
let' s move on then .
how young were you when you first masturbated ?
what ?
touched yourself .
i never did that .
the male without a history of masturbation is almost nonexistent .
well , he exists , al , and you' re looking at him .
this isn' t gonna work .
i don' t know why i bothered .
stay where you are .
i' il try again .
how often did your masturbation occur in adolescence ?
there was a problem , a
a ch
chronic condition , " the doctors called it .
how long did this continue ?
i was outfitted ... with a tight strap that i had to wear at all times .
it it kept me from coming into contact with my genitals .
it was a a highly embarrassing remedy , but it it proved effective .
the condition was cured .
how old were you ?
i i was 10 .
i' m so sorry , dad .
i' m feeling a little tired now .
sounds to me like you' re wasting your time , al .
nobody wants to know about these things .
how are you ?
when can we see dr. kinsey ?
hey .
hey , that' s him !
that' s kinsey !
there he is . !
my name is dr. thurman rice ... and i' d be happy to talk to you about professor kinsey' s ...
over here . ! repugnant book .
you are free to read and take notes ... but under no circumstances is the manuscript to leave the room .
i won' t deny the going might get a little rough .
dr. kinsey' s findings are surprising , sometimes even shocking .
for example , marital sex , which is really the only kind everyone agrees on ... is only one of nine means by which the american male achieves orgasm .
premarital sex , extramarital sex ... masturbation and homosexuality ... are much more prevalent than anyone has ever imagined before .
i can assure you that dr. kinsey ... has done everything in his power ... to present this book tastefully .
so , i thought this might be a good time ... to ask for a formal show of support .
those in favor .
i just hope it' s not going to bring too much publicity .
with any luck , mrs. spaulding ... the general public won' t even notice .
according to the kinsey report
every average man you know
much prefers his lovey dovey to court
when the temperature is low
but when the thermometer goes way up
and the weather is sizzlin' hot
mr. gob for his squab
that' il be " sex fifty " please .
a marine for his queen
a g. i. for his cutie pie is not
' cause it' s too , too , too darn hot
in an open society ... it is done through observation .
but in a puritan culture , sex remains a dirty secret ... often made dreadful through plain ignorance of what to do .
mark my words , as soon as the publicity dies down ... the american public will greet this book ...
with the thundering silence it deserves .
what brings you to new york , dr. kinsey ?
we' il be taking the sex histories or artists , writers and actors ... including the entire cast of a streetcar named desire .
we' il also be interviewing women for our next book , which is a female study ... as well as meeting with our benefactors at the rockefeller foundation .
are you surprised at the success of your book ?
no .
it shows that the world has wanted this done .
any plans on a hollywood picture based on the book ?
i can' t think of anything more pointless .
what about you , mrs. kinsey ?
has your life changed much ?
my husband' s busier than ever .
i hardly see him since he' s taken up sex .
what about this female study , mrs. kinsey ?
gentlemen .
gentlemen , gentlemen .
please .
if you want to write about something useful ...
i suggest you look into the current sex offender codes .
the majority of sex offenders in our prisons ... have nothing in their histories different from the rest of the population .
their only crime is being too poor to hire a lawyer .
this is unfair .
everybody' s sin is nobody' s sin .
and everybody' s crime is no crime at all .
everybody' s sin is nobody' s sin .
that wasn' t my point at all .
the newspapers lift things out of context to make sensational reading .
still , it' s hardly your place to offer moral prescriptions .
you' re sounding more like a a preacher than a scientist .
my father always hoped i' d become a preacher .
and why do you insist on flaunting your association with the foundation ?
haven' t i just given you the best selling scientific volume ever published ?
not only here but across the globe .
yes .
and it' s casting a bright light on every aspect of the project ... especially some of your latest methodology .
who have you been talking to ?
well , i assume that most of it is gossip .
alan .
it' s been said that , uh ... you' ve taken to observing women .
go on .
in a heightened state of arousal .
it' s true ?
yes .
and do you know why ?
we went to the leading gynecologists and asked for physical measurements ... and they barely knew what we were talking about .
when it comes to female sex organs ... we' re all tragically ignorant .
who are these women ?
volunteers .
friends of the project .
prostitutes .
no .
prostitutes are useless .
they fake their orgasms .
jesus  alan .
the sex histories we have are invaluable .
everyone knows true science lies in direct observation .
nothing can replace what the eye can see directly .
or the camera .
camera ?
don' t tell me .
y you' re making movies ?
just some photographic studies of mammalian behavior .
oh .
nature films .
animals .
yes , if you like .
gentlemen , you' re about to meet a truly rare creature .
even the most casual contact arouses a sexual response in her .
in intercourse , her first orgasm occurs ...
within two to five seconds after entry .
all set there , barbara ?
i think so .
come on in .
hello .
how do you do ?
did i mention that barbara didn' t have her first orgasm until she was 40 ?
notice how she gently strokes the inner lips and the clitoris .
eighty four percent of our sample stimulate themselves in this way .
what about the vagina ?
for all but a small minority of women , the vaginal tube is a dead cavity ... practically devoid of nerve endings .
as you can see , the introduction of the penis ... does nothing to relocate the source of stimulation ... even with as skillful a partner as pomeroy .
that is you , isn' t it ?
last time i looked .
for years , women have been told that a clitoral orgasm is immature , neurotic .
so they' ve struggled with great anxiety ... to relocate the orgasm in the vagina ... when , for many , it' s a biologic impossibility .
according to the psychoanalysts , this woman is frigid .
good news , everyone .
the rockefeller foundation announced its annual grants today .
we' ve received $40, 000 for the next year the highest grant they' ve ever bestowed on a scientific project .
well .
and they' ve agreed to underwrite a new corporation ... making us future employees of the institute for sex research .
to dr. kinsey .
hear !
hear !
and mrs. kinsey .
hear !
hear !
and to our husbands the fuller brush men of sex .
come here , my little prick nibbler .
oh .
come on .
everyone , enjoy yourselves .
ah .
you don' t look happy .
no , i am .
really .
it' s just that clyde is going to be away for so long this time .
ah .
well , don' t worry .
i' il keep an eye on him .
a lot of good that will do .
what are you trying to say , mrs. martin ?
god , you' re pretty .
drink up your grapejuice , gentlemen .
we have gathered only 9, 300 histories ... and we have the female volume to complete .
starting tomorrow , we need to triple our efforts .
well , it' s still tonight , and since my third leg keeps hittin' me in the face ...
i think it' s time for a tumble .
in the bonobo chimpanzee our nearest primate relation sex is the glue of social cohesion and peace .
cleared of notions like romantic love ... or religion or morality ... their society' s behavior hangs together ... as a coherent unit ofbiology and conditioning .
based on the experiences of females who have contributed to our histories ... we have observed a wide range of motivations for extramarital coitus .
at times , it is a conscious or unconscious attempt to acquire social status .
in other instances , it gives them a variety of experiences ... with new sexual partners who are sometimes superior to their marriage partner .
there are occasions when it is done in retaliation ... for the partner' s extramarital activity ... or for some sort of nonsexual mistreatment .
some females discover new sources of emotional satisfaction ... while others find it impossible to share such an intimate relationship ... with more than one partner .
we have also encountered a considerable group of cases ... in which husbands encourage their wives to engage in extramarital activities ... in an honest attempt to give them the opportunity ... for additional sexual satisfaction .
i' ve corresponded with this man for over 10 years , pomeroy ... but i never thought he' d agree to meet .
he' s amassed a lifetime of data .
working for the forestry department has involved a lot of traveling ... so i' ve met a wide array of people .
by the way , my name is  please .
there' s no need .
kenneth braun .
don' t worry , dr. kinsey .
i trust you .
we' re actually a lot alike , you know .
how so ?
i record everything too the depth of every vagina i' ve encountered ... the length and circumference of every penis ... the time to reach orgasm ... the distance of ejaculation .
i' ve written it all down .
this is the record of my my life' s real work ... which is sex , by the way .
um , i find that recording is a is a way to experience things a second time , don' t you ?
i also have certain ... rare abilities .
from a completely flaccid start ...
i can become erect and ejaculate in 10 seconds flat .
i' d say that' s pretty much physiologically impossible .
why , the rush ofblood alone would
oh !
oh !
shall we get started ?
my grandmother introduced me to sexual intercourse when i was 10 .
my first homosexual act was , uh , with my father .
uh , i was 11
of the 33 members of my extended family ...
i' ve had sex with 17 of them .
that' s five generations now .
my penis is 8 . 24 inches long ... with a diameter of 2 . 8 inches when fully erect .
in my youth , i averaged eight cubic centimeters of semen per ejaculation .
by the time i was 50 , i was down to five .
i' ve had sex with 22 separate species of animals .
i' ve had intercourse with 9, 412 people .
i' ve had sexual relations with ...
605 preadolescent males and ...
231 preadolescent females .
have you ever seen a boy orgasm ?
no .
no , right .
i guess that' s why i' m such a catch .
physiologically , it' s almost identical to an adult orgasm .
screw this .
i' il see you down at the bar .
i thought you trained them to be impartial .
sometimes it' s difficult .
yeah , well , i suppose someone like me ... really puts your beliefs to the test , huh ?
how ?
you know .
everybody should do what they want .
i' ve never said that .
no one should be forced to do anything against their will .
no one should ever be hurt .
you know , you' re a lot more square than i thought you' d be .
let' s get on with it .
sure .
please , governor .
you' re so angry , i can' t reason with you .
when you calm down , we' il discuss it .
seems that the archbishop of fort wayne ... tipped off the customs board .
what is it with these people ?
they' re simply depictions of man in his natural state .
i don' t know much about natural states , prok ... but here in the state of indiana we have a problem .
we' il just have to take the customs office to court .
and who' s gonna pay for that , the rockefeller foundation ?
you' re an inch away from losing your grant as it is .
that' s not true .
what do you mean ?
hoover is still annoyed that you won' t help him ... find homosexuals in the state department .
it is rumored that he is compiling dossiers ... on you ... the activities of your staff .
and , as you well know , there have been complaints about your statistical methods .
trumped up nonsense .
nothing but disguised prudery .
prok .
maybe there were small mistakes made in the male study ... but we' ve corrected them in the female volume .
this will be a very great book , herman .
much better than the first .
let' s hope so .
liberty and license are as far apart ...
as liberty and tyranny .
kinsey is a deranged nebuchadnezzar ...
leading women out into the fields ... to mingle with the cattle .
self appointed messiah of the sexually despised .
having had his way with the male of the species ...
kinsey now insecticizes american womanhood .
did you get any sleep at all last night ?
how many years do i have to study human behavior ... before i' m no longer an entomologist ?
why do you read them , prok ?
i' m trying to find out why people hate this book so .
you told them their grandmothers and their daughters are masturbating ... having premarital sex , sex with each other .
what did you expect ?
some respect !
don' t answer it .
hello .
say , kinsey , what kind of sick man are you ?
why do you wanna go around poking your nose  [ line clicking ]
we' re in trouble .
the cost of film stock is astronomical .
shouldn' t our nonprofit status get us a discount ?
prok , you' ve got to let some of this go .
we need a full time accountant .
what in heavens
stop this !
stop it at once !
in my office .
gebhard , get in there .
everyone , back to work .
do you have any idea what a delicate time this is ?
our enemies are watching everything we do .
we can' t afford a single slip up .
this has nothing to do with the project .
everything is about the project !
oh , it' s just a
a misunderstanding .
no , it' s not . !
you let things get out ofhand with martin' s wife ... and now she wants to leave him .
isn' t that right , martin ?
and what about you , gebhard ?
are you planning to leave agnes and the kids ?
no , of course not .
then end it .
i' ve tried .
it' s not difficult . just tell her it' s over .
no explanation necessary .
all right .
clyde , i' m
i' m very sorry about all of this .
i saw this coming .
gebhard should have nipped it in the bud .
you are so full of shit !
what are we to you , prok ?
we' rejust lab rats ?
is this just another part of the project [ exhales ]
to prove that sex
no .
no , i' m sorry .
fucking is ... nothing more than than friction and harmless fun ?
well , let me tell you ... that is a risky game , because fucking isn' t just something .
it' s the whole thing .
and if you' re not careful ... it will cut you wide open .
go home to your wife , clyde .
she' s going to need you .
i thought the rules were clear .
no intense romantic entanglements .
they only make people' s lives unstable .
i guess we all can' t be as disciplined as you , prok .
the question of marital infidelity ...
the question of marital infidelity ... remains one of the most complicated issues facing our society today .
reconciliation of the married individual' s desire ... for a variety of sexual partners ... and the maintenance of a stable marriage ... presents a problem which has not been satisfactorily resolved in our culture .
the fact is , america is awash in sexual activity ...
only a small portion of which is sanctioned by society .
sexual morality needs to be reformed ... and science will show the way .
sometimes
i sometimes wonder what this country would look like if ... the puritans had stayed at home .
what if all the rogues and libertines ... had crossed the atlantic instead ?
but the enforcers of chastity are massing once again ... to dissuade the scientist , intimidate him ...
convince him to ... cease research .
for heaven' s sake !
if you could get him [ indistinct ]
yes , mrs. kinsey .
mac .
he' s killing himself .
and you have to help me stop him .
okay .
hmm ?
hi .
doctors say my heart ... sounds like a cement mixer .
at least they found one .
seems i' ve developed a dependency on barbiturates .
so ... if i' ve been a bit harsh lately
how' s alice ?
she' s fine .
we' re fine .
you should get some sleep .
it' s always been my biggest fear , clyde dying before i finish this work .
in the course of these hearings on tax exempt foundations ... we intend to show how communists are financed in the united states .
there is a diabolical conspiracy back of all this ... and its aim is the furtherance of socialism in america .
do you agree that kinsey' s research ... aids the communistic aim ... of weakening and destroying the youth of our country ?
i do not agree , sir .
well , tell me , dr. gregg ... does the rockefeller foundation really believe ... that it belongs in the business of sex research ?
i think it' s probably something ... the foundation shouldn' t have anything to do with .
dr. kinsey' s project is now in a position ... to obtain support from ... other sources .
with the loss of support from the rockefeller foundation ...
dr. kinsey' s project will need other funding if it is to survive .
prok ?
prok , you home ?
we are running a budget surplus due to increased enrollment ... which is a direct result of dr. kinsey' s success and fame .
a small amount of this money ... would be enough to keep the project afloat .
prok ?
prok ?
why don' t we put it to a vote ?
all those in favor of increasing dr. kinsey' s grant ?
that' s it then .
this woman was beaten by her father when she first menstruated .
now she' s incapable of physical intimacy of any kind .
and this man " dear dr. kinsey ...
it has taken me a long time to write to you ...
i suppose because i was too ashamed and i
where' d that blood come from ?
i punctured my foreskin .
i i wanted to understand different different kinds of sensations .
it , uh it didn' t give me any pleasure .
and there and there was only a little
pain .
i couldn' t help them , mac .
i couldn' t figure it out .
just stop punishing yourself .
now i i' ve ruined it for everyone .
this is an exercise in futility .
huntington hartford is heir to the a & p fortune .
he can solve your financial problems with the stroke of a pen .
i won' t beg , mac .
i won' t beg .
ohio deplores fellatio but tolerates cunnilingus .
whereas in my home state of indiana ... all forms of oral sex are illegal , even within marriage .
mmm .
the current sex laws are completely out of touch with the real world .
i' ve had four wives .
some people say that makes me a sex offender .
well , hunt , if you keep interrupting dr. kinsey ... you' re going to have to find a fifth .
please go on .
even now , 43 states will punish a single act of adulterous intercourse .
i' m thinking ofbuilding a museum .
what' s your opinion of modern art , dr. kinsey ?
it' s not my area of expertise , mr. hartford .
i really don' t consider myself qualified to discuss it .
well , why not ?
just because i own some supermarkets ... that doesn' t mean i' m only capable of talking about groceries .
oh .
do you hate modern art as much as i do ?
squiggly lines , empty canvases , white on white .
so , the next book will deal with sex offenders ?
we need money , mrs. hartford .
we
we need someone to give us money .
you have no idea what i' ve had to endure ... just to obtain the same rights other scientists take for granted .
my funding has been slashed , and my name has been dragged through the mud ... in every newspaper and magazine across this country .
every dollar i' ve ever earned has leave me alone !
every dollar i' ve ever made has gone back into the project .
but fighting this customs case has cost us an appalling amount .
we' re broke .
dr. kinsey  please .
i' m not even sure how much time i have left .
help me .
i have to get it all on the record .
well , i' m very sorry .
any support i give might be misconstrued as an endorsement of sex .
i can' t afford that kind of exposure .
i see .
but i' m sure something will come through .
you' re right .
rich people have lazy minds .
took them five minutes to find a water glass .
i' m taking you to the hospital .
mm mm .
mm mmm .
no .
no more beds .
i spent my whole childhood lying in bed .
let' s go back to the hotel , mac .
i wanna pick up a few histories in the morning .
we' d been married for 23 years , with three marvelous children .
and as soon as my youngest left to go to college ...
i took a job in an arts foundation .
i met a woman there secretary in the grants office .
we became fast friends , and ...
before long , i fell in love with her .
hmm .
this came as quite a shock , as you might imagine .
the more i tried to ignore it ... the more ... powerful it became .
you have no idea ... what it' s like to have your own thoughts ... turn against you like that .
i couldn' t talk to anyone about my situation ... so i found other ways to cope .
uh , i took up drinking .
eventually , my husband left me .
even my children fell away .
i came very close to ... ending it all .
it' s just another reminder of how little ... things have changed in our society .
what are you talking about ?
things have gotten much better .
oh ?
what happened ?
why , you did , of course .
after i read your book , i realized ... how many other women were in the same situation .
i mustered the courage to talk to my friend ... and she told me , to my great surprise ... that the feelings were mutual .
we we' ve been together for three happy years now .
you saved my life , sir .
just , uh , one more question .
you' vejust told me your entire history childhood , family , career ... every person you' ve ever had sex with but there hasn' t been a single mention of love .
that' s because it' s impossible to measure love .
and as you know , without measurements , there can be no science .
but i' ve been thinking a lot about the problem lately .
oh .
problem ?
when it comes to love , we' re all in the dark .
so, you do think it matters ?
what time' s our flight , mac ?
not for a couple of hours .
let' s stop in the woods .
mac ?
i' m right here , prok .
just imagine ... these trees are over a thousand years old .
sequoia sempervirens always green , always alive .
mac , did i ever tell you about the mbeere ?
no , not that i recall .
they' re an ancient east african tribe .
they believe that trees are imperfect men ... eternally bemoaning their imprisonment the roots that keep them stuck in one place .
but i' ve never seen a discontented tree .
look at this one the way its roots are gripping the ground .
i believe it really loves it .
come on , mac .
what' s the hurry ?
there' s a lot of work to do .
