but i really wanted to
i wanted to give you something but why do you have to give me anything ?
because you gave me a lot ramon , you have no idea
no man has ever been so kind to me as you have been
has it been that bad ?
now , i don' t want to complicate things
i know that the problem must be me , right
that men don' t like me or something
what are you saying , rosa ?
how is that even possible ?
wasn' t that what you told me when i came here the first time ?
frustrated woman , you said
yes , yes .
if i called you that then , now i call you strong and brave and kind and beautiful .
and i call assholes those who can' t see it
rosa , please stop it .
you make me feel like a priest and i hate them enough already
sit over here , come on sit .
and leave my hand alone , you know i can' t feel it
my son says you are faking it .
but you do feel your face , right ?
i wish i could help you .
i would do anything to help you .
you would help me ?
yes
don' t worry .
i have it all planned so that no one ends up in jail
i have some friends that are willing to help
i only need one more .
someone brave , like you
no .
help you heal ... not die
come on guys , let' s go .
are you holding him ?
he won' t fit through here
ramon says that he understands the situation but that he won' t come down
ok .
it doesn' t matter .
brother andres
go upstairs and tell ramon
... and since we are inside eternity .
life doesn' t belong to us ... and we take to ridiculous extremes the bourgeois definition of private property
you are killing me
but if church was the first one in secularizing the private property
i can' t tell him that how come ?
should i tell him that ?
freedom to choose my beliefs ... no , his beliefs and decide over his life
ok , now you tell him
why does the church keep that posture of terror of death with such passion ?
because it knows that it would lose a great amount of its customers if people lose their fear to the great beyond
he reminds you that according to the polls , 67 % of the spanish are in favor of euthanasia
very well , very well .
now you tell him that moral issues are not resolved through polls
because most of the german people were also in favor of hitler
now he is going to compare me to hitler .
that is very rude
no , not that
ask him what hitler has to do with all this
no wait ...
padre francisco , do you hear me ?
yes .
ramon i can hear you
why do you mix pears with apples ?
i hope you didn' t come here to do demagoguery .
because you jesuits know a lot about that .
no , no .
of course not .
but since you bring up demagoguery , my dear ramon .
don' t you think that what' s really demagogic , is to say " death with dignity
why don' t you leave the euphemisms aside and call things by its name , with all its rawness
i take my life " and that' s it ...
your interest in me keeps surprising me , while the institution that you represent accepts the death penalty and condemned those who didn' t think the right way , to the bonfire for centuries
now you are the one doing demagoguery
yes of course , but leaving the euphemisms aside , as you say that' s what you would have done with me , right ?
burn me alive
burn me for defending my freedom
ramon , my friend ...
friend ?
ramon , my friend .
a freedom that eliminates life is not freedom
and a life that eliminates freedom is not life either
don' t call me friend !
and leave me alone
come on .
let' s go
you ... you who look like kind people , give this man reasons to live
prove to him that life is not only moving your arms and running around or kicking a ball .
damn it !
life is something else , really
life is so much more .
hear it from me
and what do you want us to do ?
that we gag him so he doesn' t talk ?
or that we put him to sleep with a rattle like a little kid
look . you appeared on tv and said something that i can' t get out of my head
manuela , leave it alone
you said that ramon' s family didn' t give him enough love ... you should know that in this house no one stopped loving ramon for one single day
not one day
i' ve been looking after him for many years and i love him like a son
i don' t know which one of you is right
and i don' t know if it' s true what you say about life belonging to god and not to us but i do know one thing you have a very big mouth
rosa , i told you that it' s not necessary .
i already shaved ramon
yes , yes .
but i know a better way
where do you have the soap ?
they' re here
i don' t feel anything .
are you sure there' s a child in there ?
7 months old , darling
well , he' s not moving you' re the one that doesn' t move
now , now , now see
he' s happy to see you how are you going to call him ?
we still don' t know
well , call him ramon so that way one day when he asks why , you can tell him my story
it' s better if you tell him
there' s someone else who will be really happy to see you
no , no .
not like that grandpa , shut up
how come you didn' t say anything ?
we wanted to surprise you
this a great wise men' s day present
i' m going to open the windows , it' s really hot in here
we better get out and leave you alone for a while
how are you sailor ?
do you drink coffee marc ?
yes , please
how are you rosa ?
fine
ramon told me that you found a new job
yes , caring for elderly people
is that woman going to stay long ?
a couple of weeks , depending on how long the book takes
well , i guess i won' t be able to shave him .
see you some other time
bye rosa
ok , the judges have their hands tied because of the legislation
we are going to try to obtain a statement where we recommend the government changes to the penal code
the government ?
the government is there to serve us , javi
your uncle is more important
the jury will not dare to agree with us , we already know that
but we can not fail on the regional audience
javier , help me with the cows
we have to convince the judges that ramon is completely sane and lucid
it would help us a lot if he writes a declaration
manuela , we have to take ramon out of the house
can you tell me what you were doing in there ?
do you know what they are talking about ?
what they want ?
and what do i do ?
lock myself up in my room ?
do you understand what they really want ?
what happens if he wins the trial ?
your uncle gets injected and dies , like a dog .
and you' il never see him again
you will never see him again , javier
or do you think death is so great ?
please use your head
death is a very serious thing , you hear me ?
your uncle dies and you won' t see him again leave me alone
it' s not that he doesn' t feel like it , he just doesn' t want to use the chair
taking him out of the house once or twice a year is an accomplishment
well , this has to be one of those times .
it is very important that ramon takes this trip .
and when would that be ?
i estimate that the trial will take place in the spring
so we still have time to propose it to him
there' s only one thing worse than the death of a son that he wants to die
well , let' s get to work
... get inside of you , eternally , my seduced lover , beloved sea
can you really smell the sea from here ?
yes , and sometimes in the morning if there' s wind and the window is open , i can smell it as if i was there
you have a very good nose
smells are probably what cause me to have more intense sensations
more fantasies
... your smell , for example .
my smell
yes , it' s the first thing i imagine when i day dream about you
really ?
and what are those dreams about ?
just things
they all have one thing in common ...
in all of them i can move ... and i stand up and travel wherever i imagine you are at that moment
and if i imagine that you are here , for example
i just get close to you
and do what i have been wishing to do so many times
then your smell becomes stronger and i get dizzy
i can feel your heart beat , then i feel your hands
and then i lose my mind ...
i lose my mind
is the water ok ?
julia ...
julia , are you awake ?
yes
i can' t sleep
why is that
i have an itch on my leg , can you come and scratch it ?
... the leg
i brought him some " filloas
i know he likes them rosa , please listen i made them
i' ve told you that you don' t have to cook him anything , or bathe him or shave him .
nothing
i take care of ramon .
get it ?
ok , then i want to hear it from him no , he already told me
besides , he is very busy now
is he with her ?
i wish i was a lawyer too .
but of course ...
don' t cry rosa , don' t cry if you don' t want to see me , please tell me
of course i want to see you it doesn' t look that way
really , what are you ...
rosa ...
rosa ...
she hung up
do you mind dialing the number again and giving me a minute alone
what' s going on between you two , ramon ?
but julia ...
why would i need to explain anything to you ?
i don' t understand why you answer me like that , because then i don' t know what i' m doing here .
unless of course , you think that there' s nothing happening here
the kiss you gave me yesterday meant nothing ?
look at you
look at you sitting there
look at you
and now look at me
where are we going julia ?
look at us
i haven' t finished
what do you think ?
that i don' t think about what happened to me ?
of course , i think about it .
frequently
every single day .
it' s like a nightmare
and i know that it will only get worse and worse until i end up like a vegetable
so i have reached a conclusion and i rather ...
i' m going to do it ramon
i' m going to take my own life
but before i do it , if you want to , my love ...
i would like to help you
leave together ...
you don' t say anything ?
you didn' t expect this
when ?
i don' t know .
we are almost done with the book and ...
i' il go to barcelona and look for an editor so you can publish it .
and then i' il come back with the first copy .
that same day , ramon .
that same day .
listen to me , in the worst case scenario we would win the public support .
if the verdict is negative the discussion will be more heated
don' t be stupid ...
i can' t understand ...
are you ok ?
yes , yes
news , what news ?
marc , please be careful .
it' s ok , it' s ok .
what happened ramon ?
we are here .
i understand ramon , i understand .
but that doesn' t matter
listen to me , if no one takes this step .
if everyone hides their heads and doesn' t even try to confront the state , the judges ...
and what do we do now manuela ?
i mean , with the trip to corunna .
do i go there and waste my time ?
knowing that they won' t listen to me
well , i think that today it is a waste of time but maybe tomorrow it could be useful for someone else
ok .
let' s go and see those judges in person
javi , where is the chair the chair ?
i don' t know , it' s probably in the back
well , i want you to take it out and clean it up .
then bring grandpa and i' il explain .
we are going to make some changes
are going to install a motor ?
you have to cut here and here let the back move , right ?
you have to cut these pipes down here and then join them with bolts so they move as hinges .
are you getting this ?
yes , yes and you dad ?
you' re going to be lying down son .
you might fall asleep at the trial
is not like they' re saying anything interesting , dad .
die to live
letters from hell
you should put a pillow here to support my head
in case i fall backwards and break my neck
hey , javi .
do you get it ?
break my neck ...
break my neck ...
grandpa
look , if you' re going to help me like that , it' s better if you do nothing
am i tying you too tight ?
you' re asking me ?
wait a moment please .
ramon
manuela , please .
as if i don' t look ridiculous enough
better this than catching a cold
and don' t you dare , taking it off
you are ramon sampedro , right ?
i' m really glad i' m taking you there
living is a right , not an obligation !
look at all the people here who did we kill , eh ?
ramon , do you feel alone because you are the only spanish to have requested euthanasia ?
yes , well , the first one in requesting it in a public manner .
but this has been happening for many years .
what do you expect from the judges ?
what are you going to tell them ?
i just want to tell them that i' m completely sane and lucid
silence
can we talk later ?
silence , please
in a state declared as law and that recognizes the right to the private property and which constitution expresses also the right not to suffer tortures or degrading treatments is correct to say , that whomever sees his position as degrading , as in ramon sampedro' s case , should be able to decide over his own life in fact , no one who attempts suicide and survives is judged afterwards but ... when you need the help of someone else to die with dignity , then the state interferes with the freedom of the people and tells them that the life they are living is not theirs , that they can' t make decisions about it
this , your honor , can only be done based on metaphysical beliefs , or religions
in a state , i repeat ... that is declared law
your honor , i ask for a legal answer , but above all , rational and humane
and now , with your permission , ramon sampedro would like to read something
overruled
my client wants to address you directly so you can hear from his own voice ...
you know the process perfectly well
of course i know it , i know it perfectly
but i didn' t know that it was so irrelevant for you to give three minutes of your time
three ...
to listen to a man that has been waiting for 28 years
if you want to change the process ... change the laws
yes , of course .
i know that already
this case is ready for a sentence
well ... i knew you were not going to take it seriously
that' s what all men do .
laugh at me .
you were not going to be different
rosa , forgive me .
it' s just that lately a little of everything happens to me
and ... i' m a little overwhelmed why ?
it' s not allowed to fall in love with a tetraplegic or what ?
is it that weird ?
well , maybe we should clear up some things .
especially if we are talking about something as complex as love .
complex ?
yes rosa , complex
no matter how much you tell me that you love me , i will never be sure of how real your love is or if it' s just an idealization of a man you wanted to find but couldn' t or didn' t last
but what are you talking about ramon ?
don' t try to confuse me
either you love or you don' t .
you can' t rationalize love
well , if that' s the case , what do you want me to do ?
you want me to move in with you ?
for me it' s enough to know that i can visit you from time to time
of course you can .
of course you can
yes , but for how long ?
rosa .
you wouldn' t ask me to stay alive for you , right ?
what if i told you that ...
that you give me strength to live ramon
wait wait .
stop this thing for a moment
sit over there .
let' s see .
do you love your children ?
of course i do .
well , there you have the strength to live
don' t give me that responsibility rosa
is that what you call love ?
keep me here against my will ?
look ...
the person that really loves me is the one who will help me die
that is love , rosa
dear julia ... yesterday i received the sentence of the provincial audience the judges understand that i want to die , but remind me that helping me , would be punishable by law ln other times , this would have affected me a lot pushing me into that alley without exit where days and nights never end but now i feel that everything is rushing by and that the publication of the book will happen any day now
and with that you will return julia .
my juliet ... it will be the sweetest death that i could ever imagine it will be love , pure and shared and it will be the return to balance .
finally to balance a kiss , my dear friend
ok , see you later
should i open it ?
it' s the book !
look , it' s the book .
you are on the cover
it smells great
it' s for you
i' m going to show it to mom
why ... why ... why can' t i be happy with this life ?
i' m going to give you a tranquilizer
why do i want to die ?
why do i want to die ?
give me two more manuela .
manuela , for crying out loud , two more pills are not going to kill me
give me two more
you' il feel better soon
how do you feel ?
fine
what time is it ?
11 : 00 am .
i didn' t want to wake you up today
the girl from boiro has called three times already
what did she want ?
she says she has to talk to you about something important
for her it is always important dial the number for me please
are you going to call her ?
why don' t you wait for her to call back ?
she can barely pay her phone bill .
dial the number please
of course ramon .
you' re always so kind
ramon ?
what' s going on rosa ?
i need to see you .
i have to talk to you
you said i should call you before visiting you yes .
did something happen ?
can i come now ?
look ramon , you said you had a plan or something
that you had figured out a way of doing what you want to do , if the judges decided against you
yes , rosa , but i already asked you to forgive me , right ?
i told you to forget about it
yes .
but i can' t
i can' t , you know
because last month the audience said no .
and you are still thinking about doing it
is that what worries you ?
that i get my way ?
so , are you going to do it ?
is not that easy , rosa .
but don' t worry
you will be the last person to find out
ramon ...
it' s that i realized ...
i understood what you said in corunna .
the person that really loves me will be the one to help me
i' m completely sure about what i feel ramon
i love you
do you want me to help you ?
rosa ...
i' m not joking ramon .
do you want me to help you ?
but what are you going to tell him ?
jose wait ...
did you hear me !
i will not allow this
and what are you going to do ?
strap me to the bed ?
or are you going to fill me with sleeping pills like they used to do at the hospital ?
no one is going to prevent me from getting out of here i will
not even you i will
we' il see about that !
or is it that i mean nothing in this house ?
i am the older brother i am the head of the family
do you think that means anything to me ?
at my age ?
for me what counts is what people have in their heads , and you have nothing in yours
i will not be a slave of your ignorance anymore or of your prude conscience
and what about me ?
i am also a slave
how do you think i felt when i left the sea ?
all my life here , living out of this fucking orchard
to be with you .
to only be with you
me , my wife and my son .
all slaves !
hello hello
your uncle is going to boiro boiro ?
what for ?
to spend some time there , he says
he' s leaving with that woman , rosa
are they getting married ?
no they' re not
what' s that about you leaving ?
for how long ?
i want to give you my book .
it' s over there
aren' t there any more copies , or what ?
yes of course , but that one is the first copy
open it at the bookmark
" to my son " ?
yes .
read it please
to my son
forgive me my son for not being born
it wasn' t my fault to leave you behind
it were the roses , the ones afraid
forgive me for not being able to play with you
i don' t know if you were born after i passed away
always remember that i still love you
give a kiss to your mother from me
and don' t keep any resentments towards me
is not good to hate
so ... did you get it ?
yes let' s see
well , it' s about a son you never had and this is like you are speaking to him
and you ask for forgiveness for not having him
ok .
but what did i add down there ?
" to javier " so ?
so what ?
don' t you see what i' m trying to say ?
but i' m not your son
of course not ...
but if i' m dedicating you that poem , it' s for a reason , no ?
but i' m not your son
i don' t know what it is that they teach you at school .
get out of here .
get out .
you are all so weird
ramon ?
how are you ?
wait a moment , i can' t hear you
tell me dear i' m leaving tomorrow
yes , rosa told me this afternoon .
i' m sure you are impatient
a little
hey ramon , i' ve been researching about that thing you know ...
what ?
well that thing ...
the powder ?
yes , the powder .
you have to calculate an exact dose of 200 mg .
but it is probable that it is a little painful ... just so you know
gen .
i think it' s best if you forget about all this .
it worries me that someday you could be implicated in this
in fact , that' s why i' m calling , i want to say good bye and we shouldn' t talk again
it' s for your own security .
you shouldn' t even talk to marc about this .
yes , yes .
i understand .
so this is farewell it' s better this way
ok , ok ... ok .
let me tell you something ...
ramon , think it through as much as necessary .
don' t feel pressured .
i mean , don' t do it to set an example or to not disappoint the public , or us or the association
no one is pushing you to do it , do you understand me ?
do you understand me ramon ?
not you too , gen , please
i' m sorry ramon goodbye gen
have a nice journey , my friend
good bye manuela ...
and you javi , please be good
i understood what you meant with the poem
come here a moment
give me a hug
do me a favour .
take care of your grandpa
well ramon , here we go
can you close the door , kid ?
come on , close it
what are you going to do in boiro chief ?
i' m going to the beach .
for a change of view
a change of view ?
that' s great
this is the best i could find with the money you gave me
and i told them about the view .
do you like it ?
where do i sign ?
what for ?
to marry you .
he fell asleep
of course .
since i don' t move at all
ramon .
if there' s really life after death ...
i know this is going to sound foolish , but ...
please give me a sign ...
a sign ?
anything .
i was never scared of spirits .
i will be very alert .
waiting .
will you do it ?
of course .
but , between you and me , i think that after we die there' s nothing .
just like before we are born .
nothing
how can you be so sure ramon ?
no one knows that
no i' m not sure .
it' s just a feeling .
it' s like when my father looks at the sky and says " tomorrow it' s going to rain " and it does
it' s a feeling .
but there' s something you shouldn' t forget .
i' m going to be in your dreams
i' m going to come to your bed at night and we will make love
and in case i don' t tell you in your dreams i' il tell you now
thank you rosa , from the bottom of my heart .
thanks
judges , political and religious authorities .
what does dignity mean to you ?
whatever the answer of your conscience is , know that for me , this is not a worthy life .
i would have liked to at least die with dignity today , tired of the institutional laziness , i see myself forced to do it in hiding , like a criminal you should know that the processes conducting to my death have been carefully divided in small actions that do not constitute a crime by themselves and have been executed by several friendly hands if even then , the state insists in punishing my helpers i would suggest that you cut their hands , because that is all they contributed
the head , i mean the conscience , was provided by me
as you can see , at my side i have a glass of water that contains a dose of potassium cyanide when i drink it i will cease to exist relinquishing my most precious property .
my body
i believe that living is a right not an obligation , as has been in my case forced to accept this sad situation during 28 years , 4 months and some days
after all this time i make a balance of the road traveled and i can' t account for the happiness
only the time that passed against my will , during most of my life will be my ally from now on
only time and the evolution of consciences will decide one day if my request was reasonable or not .
well ...
it' s hot ...
and marc , is he coming ?
he is on the beach with our son .
he loves the sea
they can' t be thinking about getting in no !
it' s too cold
how are you ?
fine
will she understand me ?
yes ...
i mean , does she still follow conversations and such yes , yes .
sometimes it' s a little difficult , but ..
well ...
i' il go see her , see you later see you later
hello julia
hello .
how are you ?
fine , and you ?
well ... here
you have a very nice house .
very beautiful
well , you know that ramon left me many letters .
i think that he enjoyed leaving writings around after he died
the thing is that the other day
i found this letter for you .
ramon who ?
ramon sampedro ...
your friend
i introduced you two .
do you remember ?
you ?
yes
it' s very nice here .
the sea inside , the sea inside
and in the weightlessness of the bottom where dreams come true two wills come together to make a wish come true
your look and my look
iike an echo repeating , without words
deeper , deeper beyond everything through the blood and the bones
but i always wake up and i always wish i' d be dead to have my lips entangled in your hair >> napisy pobrane z http : // napisy . org << >>>>>>>> nowa wizja napisw <<<<<<<<
