andante
help me !
don' t let me die like a dog on this road !
don' t let me die !
i' il become a monk !
i' il become a monk !
i' il give myself to god !
i' il give myself to god !
i' il give myself to you !
i' il give myself to you !
just spare me !
spare me !
just help me !
your father' s here .
he' s brought the whole family .
he' s leaving .
father , please stay for supper !
father !
your first mass , and you crap yourself !
i hoped we could talk .
we scraped to send you to the law , to elevate you to a noble profession .
i sweat in the mines for 20 years to give you the chance i never had !
is that how you interpret the commandment to honor your father and mother ?
god brought me here .
god ?
a shaft of lightning burns your arse , and you call that god ?
the devil , more like !
father !
shut up !
shut up !
leave me alone !
satan , stifle your lying tongue !
i never claimed to be good !
never !
they know my faults here ... my pride , my cursed lust !
i confess them all !
i confess them all !
just leave me !
just leave me !
just leave me !
please leave me !
you' re too hard on yourself , brother martin .
arguing with the devil never does any of us any good .
he has had 5, 000 years of practice .
he knows all the weak spots .
i' m sorry about today .
i' m not here to scold you , martin .
i' m too full of sin to be a priest .
you know , in two years
i' ve never heard you confess anything remotely interesting .
i live in terror of judgment .
and you think self hatred will save you ?
have you ever dared to think that god is not just ?
he has us born tainted by sin , then he' s angry with us all our lives for our faults , this righteous judge ... who damns us ... threatening us with the fires of hell !
i know !
i know i' m evil to think it !
you' re not evil .
you' re just not honest .
god isn' t angry with you .
you are angry with god .
i wish there were no god .
martin , what is it you seek ?
a merciful god !
a god whom i can love .
a god who loves me .
then look to christ .
bind yourself to christ and you will know god' s love .
say to him , " i' m yours .
save me .
i am yours .
save me .
i am yours .
save me .
i am yours .
save me .
the brothers are not happy with your decision .
they think there are others in our cloister better suited to deliver your letters to rome .
martin has two degrees and an aptitude for law .
it will be a legal brief he carries .
besides , it will do him good to be out in the world .
we need your teaching , brother !
try some wine .
let go of me !
let me go !
you listen , you little thief !
keep going .
it' s none of your business .
keep going , for your good .
hey , you look lonely , brother .
alms for a blind man !
come on , come inside .
no .
statues of all your favorite saints .
saint cecilia for sore throats ,
saint paul for bad backs and swollen feet , brother .
saint joe for chapped hands , the virgin ...
pope julius is coming !
get down !
down !
the pope is here !
it' s the holy father !
clear the streets !
make way for the pope !
make way for the pope !
this way for saint john the baptist' s head !
move along .
move along , there .
move along from the baptist' s head .
give generously !
good enough , brother .
fast or slow , you' il get your 500 years .
enough !
name of the deceased and relation ?
hendrick luther .
grandfather .
an our father on every step .
when you reach the top of the stairs ,
hendrick will be released from purgatory and into the gates of heaven .
name of the deceased and relation ?
wolfram eschen , uncle .
an our father on every step .
when you reach the top of the stairs ,
wolfram will be released from purgatory and into the gates of heaven .
you are back from rome almost two weeks .
two weeks , and scarcely alert , even in the confessional .
as your father in christ , i order you to speak .
rome is a circus ... a running sewer .
you can buy anything ... sex , salvation .
they have brothels just for clerics .
as they probably do in leipzig .
one church had the coins for which judas sold our lord .
100 years off purgatory for kissing each one .
and you think rome unique in such relics ?
there are even rumors about the holy father himself , that he has a lust for power !
let' s go outside .
what' s wrong with here ?
well , this floor ... the color .
i like color , but you give your brothers a hard choice ... they either learn to scrub like you , or find a way to make your patch a little less sparkling .
gently ,
like milking a cow .
the ancients reverenced their bees .
they valued them more than slaves .
have you ever read the new testament , martin ?
no , father .
not many have , but in wittenberg you will .
wittenberg ?
a doctorate in theology .
you' re sending me away to study ?
i' m sending you to the source ... the scriptures .
christ himself .
here i' m losing my faith , feeling like a fool even to pray , and you' re sending me away ?
you' il preach .
i' d be a fraud as a preacher !
we preach best what we need to learn most .
do not send me away from you .
god gave you gifts for a purpose .
in wittenberg , you will be able to change minds , open eyes .
that' s what you want , isn' t it ?
to change things ?
welcome to wittenberg , father martin .
i am ulrick wender .
i' il be helping you in the parish .
gunter and i have caught some fish for your first meal among us .
wender .
that' s a dutch name .
i was born in utrecht .
we have to stop for hanna .
she' s a little ... well , she keeps a child hidden in the forest .
a child living in the forest ?
a crippled child .
if we don' t buy the wood , the little thing doesn' t get fed .
wood , brother ?
half or full bundle ?
as much as this will buy .
this is our new priest , father martin .
hello , hanna .
thank you , hanna .
otto !
good morning , otto !
this is our new preacher , father martin .
father .
i look forward to seeing you at mass .
good luck , there .
get back to your work , thomas !
you' d think i was a leper .
they thought you were coming for a collection .
they thought i wanted their money ?
no , they thought the pope wanted their money .
every time a new priest comes , they have to pay rome for the privilege of sacraments .
nulla salus extra ecclesiam .
this debate has raged for over 1, 400 years , from the earliest days of the church , but now the fifth lateran council has reaffirmed saint cyprian' s famous dictum ,
nulla salus extra ecclesiam ... outside the holy roman church , there is no salvation .
professor carlstadt .
what of the greek christians ?
the greek christians ?
well , an early church document clearly states that a roman bishop , not a greek , was saint peter' s successor .
and , of course , it was peter whom our lord christ made his representative on earth .
so we must consider the saints of the greek church to be damned ?
you miss the point .
but that is the inevitable consequence of cyprian' s claim ...
greek christians are outside salvation .
or is this claim based on an over literal reading of matthew 16 : 18 ...
thou art peter , and upon this rock , i will build my church .
yet two lines earlier , in verse 16 , we find the very foundation of our faith ...
you are the christ , the son of the living god .
surely the more universal we make these great words , the nearer we come to the mind of christ .
you question the authority of the church council , sir ?
not at all .
though in 1215 , the fourth lateran council allowed that cyprian could be wrong and salvation could exist outside the church ...
though not outside christ .
thomas !
thomas !
why would he do such a thing ?
if only we knew what was in his head .
what does god say , father , for suicide ?
i never , never said i had the answers .
i defy you , devil !
you ...
i know your handiwork !
you and your stinking lies !
shaming ... shaming ... shaming a mother , telling her to hide her broken child , telling her boy to kill himself !
brother martin , the boy' s damned !
i' m not allowed to do this !
the others won' t rest with him in here !
this is holy ground !
he' s a suicide !
tell otto to bring his son !
tell him !
some people say that according to god' s justice , this boy is damned because he took his life .
i say it was overcome by the devil .
is this child any more to blame for the despair that overtook him than an innocent man who is murdered by a robber in the woods ?
god must be mercy .
god is mercy .
he is yours .
save him .
terrible .
unforgiving .
that' s how i saw god .
punishing us in this life , committing us to purgatory after death , sentencing sinners to burn in hell for all eternity .
but i was wrong .
those who see god as angry ... do not see him rightly ... but look upon a curtain as if a dark storm cloud has been drawn across his face .
if we truly believe that christ is our savior ... then we have a god of love , and to see god in faith is to look upon his friendly heart .
so when the devil throws your sins in your face and declares that you deserve death and hell , tell him this ...
i admit that i deserve death and hell .
what of it ?
for i know one who suffered and made satisfaction in my behalf .
his name is jesus christ , son of god .
where he is , there i shall be also .
prince frederick wants him silenced .
you should have stopped him , carlstadt .
forbidden him .
forbidden him , spalatin ?
to teach theology ?
he undermines the prince .
come on , there is no clear teaching on relics .
when i became a monk ,
i believed the monk' s cowl would make me holy .
was i an arrogant fool ?
now they have made me a doctor of divinity , and i' m tempted to believe that this scholar' s robe will make me wise .
well , god once spoke through the mouth of an ass .
perhaps he' s about to do so again .
but i' il tell you straight what i think .
who here has been to rome ?
did you buy an indulgence ?
no .
i did .
for a silver florin , i freed my grandfather from purgatory .
for twice that , i could have sprung grandma and uncle marcus too , but i didn' t have the funds , so they had to stay in the hot place .
as for myself , the priests assured me that by gazing at sacred relics ,
i could cut down my time in purgatory .
luckily for me , rome had enough nails from the holy cross to shoe every horse in saxony .
but there are relics elsewhere in christendom .
eighteen out of twelve apostles are buried in spain .
and yet here in wittenberg , we have the pick of the crop ... bread from the last supper , milk from the virgin' s breast , a thorn that pierced christ' s brow on calvary , and 19, 000 other bits of sacred bone , all authenticated sacred relics .
even john tetzel himself ...
inquisitor of poland and saxony , seller of indulgences extraordinary , connoisseur of relics , envies our collection !
to possess them for a single night , he would willingly surrender five years of his earthly life !
or 500 years in purgatory .
and now , good citizens of wittenberg ,
prince frederick of saxony invites you here to his courtyard to witness a mystery play on that ever most popular of subjects ... the day of judgment .
just like old times , martin .
excellency .
secretary .
prince' s secretary .
such secretaries have a habit of becoming excellencies .
even when we were law students , i had you marked for great things .
i was hoping you may be of some help in that regard .
prince frederick is exceedingly proud of his relics .
then i' m sorry he didn' t hear my lecture .
perhaps i could have swayed him .
he spent 20 years and a large fortune building his collection , that in a week' s time , on all saints ' day , thousands of faithful christians are coming to see .
paying to see .
contributions are customary for indulgences , along with confession and true penitence .
ah , yes .
the right prayers , the right coins , and 1, 900, 202 years and 27 days less in purgatory .
do not bite the hand that feeds you , martin .
our prince pays for your chair in this university .
his relics pay for your chair .
and he who pays the piper ... calls the tune .
do not embarrass him .
no one is more delighted with your popularity here .
he' d prefer you stay .
master kranauer , is luther open to persuasion ?
not likely , my prince .
he' s as bitable as ...
as a donkey , you were going to say ?
indeed , indeed .
i am conscious of the great honor you do me , cardinal cajetan , in recommending me to his holiness .
i doubt you' il think it an honor 20 years from now , aleander .
my first master was pope alexander vl .
three mistresses , five children , and a most fervent devotion to bullfighting .
pope julius il ... a month ago , he was spiritual leader of the whole world .
quite dignified looking , isn' t he ?
but it' s not what julius wanted .
he wanted to be remembered as a warrior , sitting on his horse , sword in hand , besieging the venetians .
what is it you seek , aleander ?
to serve god .
to serve him with all my heart .
and that is how you will be tempted .
pope leo x , sovereign bishop of rome , successor to saint peter and holy head of the roman catholic church .
i' ve been longing for someone to save christendom .
let us pray he' s come .
your reputation precedes you , aleander .
then i am fearful .
cardinal cajetan says you' re a brilliant scholar , yet possess a fervent desire to serve .
i have need of such gifts .
excellency .
albert of brandenburg wants to be archbishop of mainz .
he' s already archbishop of two german territories .
correct .
then canon law disqualifies him from holding a third .
moreover , wasn' t he underage when granted his first post ?
just so .
even as i myself was .
doubtless cajetan has informed you that i was made cardinal at the age of 13 .
albert' s ambition could still serve god' s glory .
the turks at the gates of vienna .
the french are yapping at my heels , and rome itself has become an open sewer filled with wild dogs and cats by day and brigands and fornicators by night .
and this new basilica of saint peter' s , it' s not just a building , aleander , it' s a symbol of my intent to restore christ' s church .
and albert could be a minor blessing in that .
he offers 10, 000 ducats for mainz .
but albert is bankrupt .
you' re well informed .
the fuggers will lend him the money .
the imperial bankers ?
an eight year loan .
and how would he repay them ?
john tetzel .
there , that' s him !
father john tetzel !
don' t unfurl the banners until the fire ignites .
everything has been prepared exactly as you instructed .
welcome , father tetzel !
come on , people !
gather round !
good people of juterbog ... have you ever burned your hand in the fire ?
even one finger made raw by the flame will torment you throughout the night .
is it not so ?
yes !
imagine , then , your entire body burning .
not for one sleepless night ... not for a week , but for all eternity !
are we to be spared the fires of damnation on the judgment day ?
tonight , your pope , the vicar of christ , sends you a gift , a gift to save you from such fires , a special indulgence granted for the building of saint peter' s church in rome ... where the bones of the apostles lie moldering , exposed to wind and rain , desecrated by wild animals .
take heed the words of your holy father who says ,
lay a stone for saint peter' s ,
and you lay the foundation for your own salvation and happiness in heaven .
how ?
with this indulgence .
when ?
tonight , and only tonight .
seek the lord while he is near .
here is your raft .
take hold !
in heaven , there is a treasure chest filled with merit .
merit from christ jesus , the virgin mary , and the saints , who , through their holy lives , have merit to spare for us poor sinners in need .
tonight , that treasury is open to you .
do you not hear their voices , the screaming voices ?
your deceased parents .
grandparents .
uncles , aunts screaming .
beloved child .
beloved child .
because , for a few coins , you can rescue them from their punishments and pain .
listen .
open your ears .
father calling to son , mother to daughter .
when a coin in the coffer rings , the soul from purgatory springs .
god fearing man , do you have a coin for christ ?
yes .
gentle mother ... when the time comes , make certain your crippled child can run to jesus .
these learned monks are standing by to write down your name or the name of a loved one , dead or alive , on this ... your passport to the celestial joys of paradise .
name ?
we can preach until we' re hoarse , but if we cannot bring the christ of the gospels to our people ...
... what do we offer them ?
dr. martin !
i did this for grete .
issued by the archbishop of mainz .
where did you get this ?
juterbog .
i bought it in the church .
it' s just paper , hanna .
these words mean ... nothing .
it' s no good ?
you must put your trust in god' s love .
save your money to feed grete .
to albert of mairnz . " father in christ and most illustrious prince . " forgive me that i should dare to write to you .
i make bold because it is my duty to serve you
and to warn you of the crooked practices of those who claim to represernt your grace .
christ did not command the preaching of indulgences . but of the gospel .
forward this to rome .
christians are to be taught
that he who gives to the poor
or lends to the needy does a better deed than he who buys indulgences .
if the pope can empty purgatory , why would he not do so out of love rather than for money ?
my god , who is this martin luther ?
fritz !
what ?
dr. luther wanted everyone to see that !
and everyone will .
good people of magdeburg , take hold of the raft while you still can .
so much grace for so little coin !
german money for the german church .
does saint peter lie in a german church ?
or saint paul ?
we don' t need your saints .
or any of the holy apostles ?
with this indulgence , i can absolve any sin .
i can even save the soul of the man who violates the mother of god herself .
one fifth of the usual take .
how will you explain this to rome ?
damn that heretic !
he will burn in hell .
this drunken little german monk is intoxicated with himself .
sober him .
why was prince frederick not apprised of your letter to albert of mainz ?
why ?
i did not want him compromised .
now our prince can swear before god he had no knowledge of my writings or my criticism of the archbishop .
criticism of the archbishop ?
what of your criticism of rome ?
do you have any idea how embarrassing this is to prince frederick , his prize professor of theology drawing condemnation from the pope ?
my criticism was not of the holy father himself , but of those rogues who claim to represent him .
you have been summoned to appear by rome .
you are threatened with excommunication .
but i' m a loyal son of the church !
i don' t believe the pope would issue such a summons .
welcome to the world of politics , doctor .
martin ...
lay low .
do not write a single word to anyone until i have a chance to sort this out .
they' ve already published my explanations of the 95 theses .
i dedicated it to pope leo .
clearly , clearly you' ve heard the rumors ... that the pope has summoned me to augsburg .
well , it' s true .
it' s true , and i pray fervently he will find no fault with me .
but think on this while i am gone .
we obsess ... over relics .
indulgences .
pilgrimages to holy places .
yet all the time , all the time , there is christ .
christ .
christ , here ... in every corner , in every hour of the day .
he isn' t found in the bones of saints ... but here , in your love for each other , in your love for one another ... in his sacraments , and in god' s holy word .
if we , if we live the word , by faith ...
in love and service to one another , we need fear no man' s judgment .
good to see you .
thank you .
martin , the faculty stands behind you .
i have written a letter of protest , and i' il be the first to sign should they arrest you in augsburg .
thank you , carlstadt .
thank you .
bless you .
bless you .
father .
are you in trouble ?
what happens now ?
i honestly don' t know .
well ...
father , thank you .
thank you , father .
just try to keep your big mouth shut .
father .
she wants you to know that she prays for you every night .
father .
have i ... ?
have i caused you trouble too ?
i' m here to get you through this .
they' ve stopped tetzel from preaching .
he' s in leipzig under house arrest .
that' s a good sign , isn' t it ?
that means that rome must understand .
it just means he went too far .
martin .
martin , listen to me .
cardinal cajetan didn' t bring you here to teach him the scriptures .
i beg you in god' s name to have a care .
be temperate .
don' t talk , just listen .
your life could depend on it .
he' s waiting for you .
i am girolamo aleander , representing cardinal cajetan .
your meeting won' t take long .
i' m here to prepare you for tonight .
please .
sit .
it was never my intention to say anything against the honor and the dignity of our holy father .
of course not , brother martin .
and that being the case , that we all desire peace , you only have to follow a few simple rules of protocol .
when you meet the cardinal , you will throw yourself on the floor , face to the ground .
the cardinal will tell you to stand , at which time you will kneel and remain kneeling throughout your hearing .
do you understand ?
yes .
if the church takes exception to a single point ,
i will submit to her immediately .
but i' m sure when the cardinal and pope leo understand my position ... they' il find no fault with me .
we have a misunderstanding .
there will be no discussion .
no debate .
you have one word to say and one word only .
revoco ...
i recant ... and the matter is over .
i think we do have a misunderstanding .
i came to augsburg to warn the pope about the abuses against the faithful by the indulgence preachers .
have a care , brother martin .
it is the pope who shall decide what is or is not beneficial to christendom .
this evening , one word .
revoco .
thank you , excellency .
brother martin ... with your permission , i' m going to arrange a bath for you .
thank you , excellency .
my son , i know you desire to be a faithful servant of christ and his church .
i am here to help you .
stand on your feet , my son .
what do you have to say ?
have i erred ?
yes , you have erred .
how ?
that i may avoid such error again .
you have erred by teaching new doctrines .
which of my teachings is offensive to rome ?
for one , indulgences .
pope clement' s decree , unigenitus . clearly states that the merits of christ are a treasure of indulgences .
acquire .
i' m sorry , your grace .
i think you' il find it says ...
the merits of christ acquire the treasure of indulgences .
i am not here to wrangle with you .
no , your grace .
but unigenitus was issued 175 years ago , and were this decree not so embarrassing to our church , perhaps it would not be commonly called extravagante and left out of most collections of canon law .
it contradicts anomitanos .
our present pope leo is in harmony with clement' s decree ... and there ends the matter .
the honor of the papacy is not preserved by the naked assertion of papal authority , but by safeguarding the pope' s credibility and the clear testimonies of divine scripture .
the pope interprets scripture .
he may interpret it ... but he is not above it .
he was to say one word .
we both know the selling of indulgences have no scriptural support .
if common people could read the bible for themselves , they would understand just how broad the church' s interpretations are .
that is outrageous !
the scriptures are too complex for even the average priest to understand , much less the common man !
indulgences are an established tradition which give comfort to millions of simple christians .
comfort ?
your grace , i' m not interested in comfort .
comfort is not the issue !
so you consider your discomfort more important than the survival of christianity ?
i' m interested in the truth !
the truth ?
the turks are building armies on our eastern borders .
we are on the brink of war .
to the west , lies a world of souls who have never heard the name of christ .
that is the truth !
christianity is tearing apart , and just when we need unity most , you create confusion !
my goal is not to quarrel with the pope or the church , but to defend them with more than mere opinion .
the gospel cannot be denied for the word of man .
i refuse to argue with that monk .
you said he was a simpleton .
he questioned the pope' s authority .
anomitanos .
unigenitus .
or shall we call it extravagante like the rest of the world ?
he' s a heretic .
our orders were clear .
either he recant ...
do not presume to lecture me , aleander .
i know perfectly well what our orders were .
i kept my temper and merely asked to be shown the error of my ways .
if you do not recant , you will be delivered to the inquisition .
will you recant ?
what ?
then there is only one way to save your life .
kneel .
kneel !
martin luther , in the name of christ , i release you from your vows to the augustinian order and commend you to god' s mercy .
i' m no longer your father , do you understand ?
were i your father , then under canon law ,
i would be obligated to deliver you to the authorities !
but i' il be your spiritual father ... until the day i die .
now go .
go quickly !
there is a horse at the back gate .
don' t leave me alone , father .
please .
father !
my prince . how shall i answer ?
the cardinal demands that luther be delivered to rome or banished from saxony .
have you read luther' s work ?
yes , all of it .
yes .
he' s a brilliant little monk , isn' t he , with an independent mind .
yes , he is .
oh , spalatin , you were at law school with him , weren' t you ?
did he show any inclination then of surrender to influence ?
no .
after all , all he has done is to debate , eloquently , on a most interesting subject .
and , after all , that is all one can ask a good university professor to do .
so what shall we say to the cardinal ?
nothing .
my lord , we have to respond .
spalatin , there are two ways of saying no to someone you believe to be stronger than yourself .
the first is to say nothing and go on merely doing what you were doing before , and pretend that you never heard , allow time and inertia to be your allies .
and the second ?
and the second is to say no in such a kind and thoughtful way it befuddles them .
naturally , if both these strategies fail , there is nothing but to relent .
or to fight !
and of course , if you decide to fight , you also have to decide to win .
no , i' m not going to send my monk to rome .
they' il only kill him .
it' s so irritating .
who are they to deprive my university of such a fine mind ?
your little german monk is still spewing filth at us .
he has a new cartoon circulating .
he calls you an ass playing a harp , cajetan .
the point , your holiness , is that he does not write in latin .
luther writes in german .
that is his sword .
so he does not play like a gentleman ?
ordinary germans can quote his work .
if we wait , we might be too late .
you exaggerate his importance .
besides , you told me yourself you agree with his list of abuses .
some of his concerns have long been held by those who love the church , yes .
i don' t suppose your little monk would be interested in a cardinal' s hat ?
i think he would be ashamed to wear it , your holiness .
we must put pressure on prince frederick , excellency .
aleander is right .
frederick is our key to luther .
germany is on the brink of chaos , and we don' t want to divide the church .
i grow tired of you missing the big picture , cajetan .
that' s why i' ve sent karl von miltitz to germany in your stead .
my lord , greetings from our most holy father .
as for me , i am especially honored to meet you , as all of christendom knows of your steadfast devotion to the faith .
i have brought you a gift from our holy father ... to express his highest esteem for your lordship , for , as you know , my lord , this most sacred rose is consecrated annually by pope leo himself , and sent to just one favored prince in recognition of heroic loyalty and devotion to christ' s holy church .
spalatin , i' m sorry for keeping you so late , but this is a matter of some urgency .
first of all , give miltitz 600 ducats as an expression of our gratitude .
my lord , the rose is hardly worth so much .
oh , i know that .
and then tell them that we will not deliver luther to rome .
and get that ... that rose ...
put it among the relics , and while you' re about it , move all the relics out .
move them to someplace i don' t even know where they are .
i don' t want to know where they are .
i want ...
go on .
when i was a child , i thought like a child ,
i was a child , i played like a child .
and now , thanks to the adults ,
i' ve had to join the world of adults .
and i am appalled ... by how easy they thought it was to bribe me !
