what is so important that you interrupt us ?
prince frederick of saxony .
he refuses to surrender luther to you , your holiness .
anise .
o lond . and judge tly cause .
a wild boan las invaded tly vineyand .
we can no longen suffen tle senpent to cneep tlnougl tle field of tle lond .
tle books of mantin lutlen ane to be exammined and bunned .
anyone wlo pnesummes to infninge oun excommmmunication and anatlemma will stand unden tle wnatl of almmiglty god and tle apostles peten and paul .
amen .
devils .
this ... is what rome calls a papal bull , an edict from the pope himself .
there' s only one thing to do with this blast of wind .
my emperor .
my good uncle .
allow me to extend my congratulations on your elevation .
i' ve come to speak to you about martin luther .
our holy father has sent his new cardinal to advise us .
you mean you' ve traveled all the way from rome just in order to advise us about this small matter ?
heresy is never a small matter , my lord .
your highness , if i might for a moment have your ear .
if your business is martin luther ...
my business is saxony , sir ... ... and i wish a brief audience with my emperor .
deliver luther to rome .
i cannot .
he' s my subject .
it' s my duty to see that he gets a fair hearing .
aleander has given me his word that the inquisition will give luther a proper hearing .
the rome inquisition does not give hearings , my lord .
it gives death sentences .
and the whole of germany prays that you will defend her .
the heretic must be tried .
your blessed grandfather maximilian told us that no german subject would ever be condemned without a fair trial in his own country .
then we shall hear him in germany .
in worms .
worms is still a very long way from wittenberg , my lord , and the pope himself has put a bounty on luther' s head .
his spies are everywhere , in defiance of my humble rule , and therefore , sir , in defiance of your greater rule .
then i will ensure martin luther' s safe conduct to a fair hearing .
i myself shall send you an imperial guard to escort him .
on that you have my word .
oh , yes .
don' t kneel to me .
i' m no saint .
i thought you had abandoned me .
i thought i was alone again in this world .
be still , martin .
one slip , and you' il save the emperor a trial .
i' m here to serve you .
i jest because i' m so afraid .
martin , i hoped you' d help reform the church , not destroy it .
with all its sins , the church is still the church .
what is a child without its family ?
how would people fare left to themselves , helpless and frightened ?
all my life , i have seen a world that hates evil more than it loves good .
i beg you to look to the good , martin .
you are tearing the world apart .
that day when you sent me out so boldly to change the world ...
did you really think there wouldn' t be a cost ?
it is simply a matter of individual conscience .
they' il burn him for sure .
do you , martin luther , recognize these books ?
tle 95 tleses .
a senmmon on indulgence and gnace .
tle babylonian captivity .
fneedomm of a clnistian .
addness to tle clnistian nobility of tle genmman nation ?
are you the author ?
all are mine .
these books contain heresies against our holy church .
do you recant what you' ve written ?
i ...
please , god , let him say the right thing .
i was ...
speak up .
may i have time to consider ?
you have had the time , and you should have been prepared to answer .
i would like to answer satisfactorily , without injury to the divine word or danger to my soul .
any one of us might be expected to bear witness , unequivocally and fearlessly at any time .
all the more in your case , a famous , experienced professor of theology .
we grant you one day .
tomorrow you shall answer .
oh , my , yes .
well , where is his faith now ?
where' s his faith now ?
where' s his boasting now ?
where' s his boasting ... ?
i am yours .
save me .
i am yours .
save me .
i am yours .
save me .
speak well , doctor .
good luck , martin .
good luck .
good luck , martin .
god be with you .
i pray thee do thy will .
order in the hall .
martin luther , are you the author of these writings ?
i am .
do you recant what you have written here ?
i cannot renounce all of my works because they are not all the same .
first are those books in which
i have described christian faith and life so simply that even my opponents have admitted that these works are useful .
to renounce these writings would be unthinkable , for that would be to renounce accepted christian truths .
he is not here to make speeches , only to answer .
the second group of my work is directed against the foul doctrine and evil living of the popes , past and present .
through the laws of the pope and the doctrines of men , the consciences of the faithful have been miserably vexed and flayed .
if i recant these books ...
i will do nothing but add strength to tyranny and open not just the windows but also the doors to this great ungodliness .
he has condemned himself .
in the third group ,
i have written against private persons and individuals who uphold roman tyranny and have attacked my own efforts to encourage piety to christ .
i confess ... that i have written too harshly .
i am but a man and i can err .
only let my errors be proven by scripture ...
and i will revoke my work and throw my books into the fire .
you have not answered the question .
you , martin luther , will not draw into doubt those things which the catholic church has judged already , things that have passed into usage , rite , and observance ... the faith that christ , the most perfect lawgiver , ordained , the faith the martyrs strengthened with their blood .
you wait in vain for a disputation over things that you are obligated to believe .
now give your answer .
yes or no ?
will you recant or will you not ?
since your majesty and your lordships desire a simple reply ...
i will answer .
unless i am convinced by scripture and by plain reason ... and not by popes and councils who have so often contradicted themselves ... my conscience is captive to the word of god .
to go against conscience is neither right nor safe .
i cannot ... and i will not recant .
here i stand .
i can do no other .
god help me .
no , it' s not that simple .
i am descended from a line of christian emperors .
you will not make a heretic of me .
he has condemned himself , excellency .
he must be stopped before he infects all of germany .
my lord , you gave luther the promise of a safe conduct .
luther' s not a man but a demon , clothed in his religious habit , the better to deceive us .
martin luther' s your subject .
what do you say ?
he is too daring for me , my lord .
although not , it seems , for the people .
if anything should happen to him on the way back ... so be it .
why are they leaving us ?
wait .
martin .
martin luther , step down and your comrade will be spared .
i' m luther .
i am luther .
sorry about the rough ride .
prince frederick was keen to nab you before someone else did .
tley mmay lave mmundened lutlen . but they will not stop what we have started .
you call me professor carlstadt .
from this day forward , i am brother andreas .
yes .
thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image .
learn to despise props and pretensions .
stand with the righteous , or be cut down with the others .
i know martin luther .
i discovered him .
he said reform .
if you haven' t got the stomach to finish what he started , melanchthon , step aside .
why are you babbling in riddles ?
beware , or you too shall be cut down .
what ?
i asked for a greek new testament .
i need proper books , not this rubbish .
and a greek german dictionary .
leave us .
and a greek latin dictionary .
this is not the time , martin .
well , the emperor' s going to burn me , anyway .
he' il burn us all .
this is treason .
to have a new testament in german , in words ordinary people can understand ?
it' s the thing rome fears most .
well , you must blame the author for that .
come out , you ...
how do you expect to do this ?
we must send in soldiers .
and cause more bloodshed ?
if wittenberg cannot settle its religious problems without that , then the rest of the world will not be impressed .
send for luther .
how' s the work ?
tricky .
words are like children ... the more care you lavish on them , the more they demand .
rather like women .
i wouldn' t know .
take this verse in saint luke ...
it is the father' s will that nothing be lost .
in our language , the word " will " denotes strength , willpower , bending someone to your will .
but in the original greek , this three letter word denotes passion , fire , inner organs .
it can mean beloved , desire , even sexual desire .
eat your porridge .
you' re not even listening .
besides , porridge does nothing for my bowels .
no , it' s not the word that' s important , but what it' s saying about god .
you are too much alone here .
you are too much alone here .
oh , very good , spalatin .
two weeks since you last came .
how can i write for our people when i don' t live among them ?
the language of the bible should be like a mother talking to her children .
well , it' s decided ,
martin luther must not leave this room .
but knight george ... may .
it' s time you saw for yourself , martin .
why ?
why were they killed ?
no reason .
just happened to be in the wrong place , got in the way of a mob of peasants looting a monastery .
the whole world' s been turned upside down by that madman luther .
and him saying that every christian has the right to take what they need by force .
well , luther' s gone , but his damned ideas have set the whole earth on fire .
soon this country will be blazing .
how dare you ?
you call yourselves christians ?
you , why are you standing there ?
when a limb is rotten , you must cut it off .
you know that as well as i.
beat me out ?
i defended you .
i supported you .
i' m carrying on just as you would have .
you think this is my work ?
it' s the people' s work .
spalatin .
are you there ?
now , how is he ?
luther' s depressed , my lord .
confused .
he feels the peasants have twisted his language .
but he will join them ?
luther abhors violence .
but he' s in sympathy with their grievances ?
it' s hard to argue against freeing people from crippling taxes or the purgatory of being born slaves all their lives .
you know , if luther were to lift one finger , every peasant in germany would rise up behind him .
maybe .
luther' s a theologian , my lord .
he fights , but with his tongue or his pen .
he will not dnaw tle swond .
i lave finally tonn tle wonld apant .
i said tlese nebels wene outside god' s law . tlat notling on eantl is mmone poisonous .
luntful .
on devilisl tlan a nebel . tlat tley mmust be stopped by eveny mmeans possible .
and yet tle blood tley sled is as notling commpaned to tlis slauglten
i lave unleasled .
you don' t want to go in there , sir .
it' s over .
yes .
it' s over .
how many ?
no one knows yet .
how many ?
some say 50, 000 .
some 100 .
100, 000 ... dead peasants .
there were knights among them .
that' s a plague , spalatin .
that' s butchery .
have a care , martin .
you may need these butchers .
grete .
we are seeking dr. luther .
please .
my sisters and i escaped three days ago from the convent at nimbschen .
and ... you still came here ?
because this is where dr. luther lives .
sir , we were smuggled out in these herring barrels .
we' ve been two nights on an open wagon , have had no rest , no food , no sleep .
so if you could just tell me ...
i ...
i' m luther .
katharina von bora .
martin luther .
but you know that already .
i' il take you to a shelter .
who' s there ?
no .
martin luther ?
my lord .
well .
we meet at last .
i dedicated this work to you , my lord .
the translation of the new testament ... into our own language .
into german ?
but this will separate us from rome ... forever .
i have always sought christian unity , but not at the price of servitude .
i answer to god' s law , not roman .
roman law is the reality .
i believe in the reality of christ .
with no compromises ?
none .
you realize , of course , they' il take this to be an act of sheer provocation .
yes .
and they will not hesitate to strike back .
yes , i know .
well , so long as you know .
do you think i could have my present now ?
yes , of course .
take my heart
and never worry
evil tongues will mock
we' il mock in turn
for my heart is my gift to thee
have not a care
never worry
stay , ulrick , stay .
please .
marry one of these lovely young women .
i know there' s at least one left .
i' il bring god' s word to my homeland .
no , this is not a good time .
no prince can protect you there .
i want the dutch people to know what i experienced when i read his word for the first time .
then god be with you .
and with you , martin .
you left so quickly , i feared it was my singing .
if only it were .
look at him .
he goes to his fate , hurrying like a bridegroom .
not all bridegrooms are so fleet .
i would not say the bachelors of wittenberg have been tardy .
true .
the other nuns are all spoken for .
and you' ve made it so clear that marriage is an honorable estate ... for everyone else , at least .
i see why you scare them .
my grief is that i scare you .
i know you like me , doctor .
i feel your heart when we make music together .
but when the music ends , you flee .
i' m a man of blood , katie .
i divide people .
thousands have died because of me .
most days i' m so depressed i can' t even get out of bed .
people try to make me a fixed star .
but i' m not .
i' m a wandering planet .
no one should look to me for guidance .
two things i promise you ... we will make joyous music together , and to get to you , your enemies will have to step across my dead body .
in return , i ask only one thing ... that you bring none of them to our marriage bed , not peasants or princes or popes , unless he be a god of love .
there' s nothing left except these .
so mmucl fon leo wlo would nebuild romme ...
banknupt .
800 . 000 ducats in debt .
had le lived .
le would lave sold tle vatican itself .
but as a pope , he could have changed the world .
he could have reformed the church instead of just rebuilding it .
leo was a spiritual dwarf when we needed a giant like luther .
well , luther' s getting married .
to a runaway nun .
he wouldn' t dare .
if i wene to tell you tlat
albent of mainz sent us a wedding pnesent . wlat would you say ?
send it back .
then it' s as well he did no such thing , or we' d be having our first quarrel .
martin .
they caught him at the border .
what is it ?
what has happened ?
the emperor summons our princes to augsburg .
why ?
to finish what he began at worms .
you mustn' t go .
they' il fry you like a suckling pig .
if you die , everything you stand for dies with you .
all right , what will you say ?
how will you make them change their minds ?
i don' t know .
katie , first they wanted me to recant .
now they want half of europe to bow the knee .
let somebody else fight .
all i want is luther .
break the princes , and you break luther .
their tactics will be to delay , to bog the process down in detail .
luther' s hymns .
they are .
you must keep the issues simple , excellency .
they must accept there is only one church .
this plague just goes on spreading .
my pninces .
bnotlens in clnist . tlis isn' t a timme fon caution . but fon boldness .
clanles is not tle fnigltened youtl you saw at wonmms .
dn .
lutlen .
he las lummbled fnance and sacked romme itself .
only the turk remains a threat to him .
in a word , he has all the time and resource in the world to reduce us to a powder piece by piece , state by state .
and i think he means to do it .
my lords ... silence will not save us .
if we challenge charles , will there be war ... the awful shedding of yet more blood ?
i honestly don' t know .
i' ve mislaid all my former certainties .
but think .
the emperor invites us to present our creeds , to present what we believe in .
satan invites us to preach in hell .
is that a trap ?
or our greatest opportunity so far ?
and remember , since i may not come with you to augsburg , you' il face charles ' rough alone .
your choice is simple .
if you give in , my lords , the bright comet that is our faith will shatter and be reduced to a few isolated torches , sputtering in a dark universe .
and why does the father run to meet his prodigal son ?
landowners don' t run .
noblemen don' t run .
princes don' t run .
so why does this rich , landowning father run ?
because he' s afraid .
he' s so afraid that his son will run back to the filthy pig farm .
he runs because he loves his son .
and there' s a special word for this love .
compassion .
compassion .
and you know what this word means ?
it' s just a church bell , martin , ringing the angelus .
continue the story .
beloved princes of the empire ,
i will be brief and to the point .
your ministers shall not preach , and you will outlaw these bibles in the common language and declare anyone who possesses one an enemy of the state .
we will not stop our ministers from preaching the word , here or anywhere else .
do not concede , my lord .
we will not outlaw the new bible , my lord .
as a sign of your loyalty to me , tomorrow you shall all march in the corpus christi procession to the cathedral and worship , all of you , in the roman manner .
we will not , my lord .
before i let anyone take from me the word of god and ask me to deny my belief ,
i will kneel and let him strike off my head .
your highness , we have drawn up a confession of our faith which i believe you will find blameless .
i am so very happy to have been loved by you ...
katharina von bora .
