23 . 976
previously on stargate sg 1
these two liquids mixed together form the most virulent poison .
am i supposed to hold my breath ?
the poison is only deadly to symbiotes .
there' s enough material in that vial o kill every tok' ra on this base twice over .
anubis once probed thor' s mind and in doing so they would have gained access to asgard beam technology .
did you really think that they were gonna let you tell a secret like this ?
brian !
what are you talking about ?
they call themselves the trust .
they' ve been funding various secret endeavours all aimed at controlling alien technology for their own purposes .
the symbols , doctor jackson .
we know it' s the language of the ancients .
we need them translated into goa' uld .
so either you give us what we want ...
or i will kill her .
what' s going on ?
not much .
i hate the graveyard shift .
nothing exciting ever happens on it .
just cos it' s three a . m . here , it doesn' t mean that it' s not daylight on other planets .
there could be a team coming in hot any ... second ... now .
yeah , that' s true !
so , coffee ?
yeah .
let me ask you something .
it' s late at night and there' s not that many people around do you ever get the urge just to dial up the gate and check out another planet , just for a few minutes ?
that' d be a no .
me me me neither .
what the hell ?
the gate' s gone !
i can see that !
are we gonna get in trouble for this ?
season 8 episode 10 endgame
transcript : stargatedanielfriendly . net
synchro : frost666 , greatouille
www . seriestele . net
what about your instruments ?
were you detecting any signs of gate activity ?
no , sir .
did anyone approach the gate at any time ?
no .
no .
so no unusual activity of any kind .
ok
sir , are we gonna be facing any kind of disciplinary action for this ?
no , sergeant , i think it' s safe to say there was nothing you could have done .
thank god !
i mean , there wasn' t .
one minute we were getting coffee , the next minute the gate was ...
wait a minute !
wait a minute .
you were getting coffee ?
um ... we ... it ...
i' m joking , i' m joking , this is a joke , i' m sorry .
ok , that' s all , thank you , guys , i appreciate that .
ok .
well , i' d i' d hate to be the guy that has to explain this to the president .
sir .
i' ve got the video surveillance footage .
the gate disappeared at oh three oh seven .
there were two airmen in the gateroom and two technicians in the control room but none of them saw or heard anything out of the ordinary prior to the flash .
is it just me or does that look like an asgard beam ?
it does ... which makes no sense .
why would they take our gate ?
usually they ask nicely before they ignore us and do whatever they damn well please .
what about the prometheus ?
didn' t the asgard install beam technology as well as a hyperdrive ?
yeah , it' s in the hangar .
we' re still making adjustments to the new engines .
there is another possibility .
we know that anubis possessed asgard beam technology .
we also know that ba' al took over much of his fleet .
you think ba' al stole our gate ?
to be honest , right now i don' t know what to think .
well , i need some answers .
that' s not gonna be easy , sir .
without a gate , we have no access to offworld intel .
we have no way of knowing what' s going on out there .
you' il think of something .
in the meantime , i have a phonecall to make .
is teal' c still on p4s 161 ?
yeah , his meeting with the rebel jaffa leaders should be over by now .
when he can' t contact us he' il follow protocol and head to the alpha site .
colonel pierce .
teal' c .
what is the situation ?
we' ve been out of contact with earth for seven hours now .
we can establish a wormhole but all we get is a " do not proceed " response to our idc .
as was the case when i attempted to return from my mission .
we' ve had lockdowns before , but the fact that they' re not responding to any of our radio calls has me concerned .
right now we have no idea what' s happening at stargate command .
i will return to p4s 161 .
the rebel jaffa will provide me with a cargo ship which i will then take to earth .
teal' c .
we' re not jumping to conclusions ; this may be just a malfunction but it' s also possible earth has been compromised .
indeed .
find anything ?
yeah , as a matter of fact i have .
i' ve been going over gateroom security tapes and the sensor logs .
for two days before the gate disappeared , we were getting this anomalous reading .
we assumed it was residual feedback from a recent overhaul of the superconductors , but i don' t think so .
look at this .
what was that ?
i don' t know , but i checked the time code and this corresponds with the exact moment that the sensors began recording the anomaly .
i think we need to talk to this guy .
doctor kevin hartkins .
he' s been with the programme seven months .
clean record , nothing out of the ordinary except that he' s gone missing .
he failed to report for duty this morning .
when we checked his apartment , it was cleaned out .
this is starting to sound familiar .
you think it' s the trust ?
well , they' ve been busy lately .
they had teal' c under surveillance , they blackmailed you , and they tried to kill alec colson .
obviously the operation is a lot bigger than we first thought .
now , as far as we know , the nld has been clean for over a year but there are still dozens of ex agents who are unaccounted for and they continue to receive financing from unknown sources .
if they could take the gate out from under us , they could empty the vault at fort knox .
not necessarily .
if they could take the gate any time they wanted , they would have , but that doesn' t explain what hartkins was doing , or the anomalous signal .
got a theory ?
the prometheus has asgard beam technology but not asgard sensors , which means that we can' t pinpoint specific targets unless they' ve been tagged in advance .
what if whoever did this has the same problem ?
you think the anomaly was a locator beacon ?
yeah , which hartkins placed directly on the gate .
i mean , there' s no other way they could pull this off .
so my stamp collection is safe how does that help us find the gate ?
well , if they wanna keep using the beam , they' il have to keep using the beacons .
we could request nsa satellite time to see if we could detect the signal .
do it .
m' zel .
teal' c .
what has happened here ?
when i arrived , they were all dead .
all ?
i will show you .
we took out a couple of guards and made the area secure .
satellite intel puts the signal somewhere inside this complex .
alright .
you three are with us .
keep your men on the perimeter , no one in , no one out .
understood .
sam !
daniel , these are vx rockets .
yeah ?
what' s this ?
methylphosphonothioic acid .
which is ?
nerve gas .
ok ... putting that back !
there' s enough here to kill several hundred thousand people .
what would the ex nld be doing stockpiling this stuff ?
i have no idea .
colonel !
ah ... we' ve got a problem here !
what do we do ?
it' s too late .
nothing' s happening .
this doesn' t make sense .
the effects are almost instantaneous .
we should all be dead .
you see ?
we managed to identify the liquid we found in the warehouse .
it' s symbiont poison specifically the new formula we were working on in conjunction with the tok' ra .
it' s more stable than the original and easier to produce , but just as deadly to the goa' uld .
and the jaffa .
exactly ... which is why we agreed not to use it except in defensive situations .
sir , the people behind this have the gate and they have rockets capable of delivering the poison in aerosol form over large areas .
i think the trust intends to launch a full scale chemical attack against the goa' uld without any regard for the millions of jaffa lives that could be lost in the process .
so , they didn' t get the memo .
the guy from the warehouse isn' t talking but he was carrying this .
it' s an area 51 identification badge .
colonel carter , doctor jackson .
sorry to keep you waiting .
doctor brigsdale .
i believe you' ve been briefed on our situation ?
yes , i have .
well , as a result of our investigation , we have reason to believe that your security has been compromised .
with all due respect , colonel , we' re not the ones who lost the stargate .
but alien technology has gone missing from area 51 before .
yes .
however , our security measures have been significantly increased since then .
no one' s allowed to bring anything in or out no computers , no cellphones , not even their street clothes , as you' ve seen .
all personnel are subject to a thorough search and scan every time they leave .
look , whoever took the stargate has access to asgard beam technology .
last year when osiris came to earth , she used that same technology , which she activated remotely with a wrist device .
after she was captured , that wrist device was brought here , and you worked on it .
and it' s been here ever since .
well , if you don' t mind , we' d like to see it .
doctor harris checked out some of the dead jaffa on p4s 161 .
you were right .
it was the tok' ra symbiont poison .
i would not have believed it had i not seen it with my own eyes .
i knew the tok' ra had lost patience with the alliance , but i never thought they' d do anything like this .
teal' c !
i have received word from our jaffa brothers .
three more goa' uld planets have been attacked .
millions are dead .
you see ?
right where we left it .
sorry if i' m a little sceptical but , uh , we' ve been down this road before .
it' s real .
like i said .
we figured if osiris ' ship was still up there , we could use the wrist device to get on board .
unfortunately it' s not only keyed to the presence of naqahdah in the blood of the user but also specific goa' uld dna .
we tried to create an adapter using samples of both elements but we didn' t get anywhere .
so the ship is probably still in orbit but cloaked .
in which case we have no way to find it .
the tok' ra will be made to pay for this treachery !
let' s just calm down a second .
we need to figure out what' s going on .
what more do you need to know ? !
the jaffa are being murdered .
poisoned , like vermin !
the tok' ra have had this chemical weapon for a long time .
why would they suddenly decide to use it now ?
perhaps the failure of the alliance convinced them that there is no other way .
there' s something else going on .
it' s not a coincidence that this happened immediately after we lost contact with earth .
it does seem unlikely .
we must speak to the tok' ra directly .
that' s not so easy .
ever since they left the alpha site , we haven' t had much intelligence on their movements .
we have no idea where their new base is .
we still know the location of some of their operatives .
i believe our best chance for contact is p3s 114 .
a tok' ra operative named zaren is undercover commanding one of ba' al' s garrisons on that world .
i will come with you .
hold on a minute here .
you' re talking about walking into goa' uld occupied territory , and there' s no jaffa fifth column there to help you out .
without sympathetic warriors in zaren' s ranks , how do you plan to avoid being captured ?
we do not .
what ? !
only by being captured will we be brought before the commander .
that' s how you' re gonna make contact ? !
we must speak to the tok' ra .
there is no other way .
it' s too risky .
you walk in there unannounced and zaren could have you sacrificed just to maintain her cover .
that is a great possibility .
you realise the second you walk through that gate , you' re on your own ?
understood .
so what' s the big emergency ?
i can' t do this any more !
you' ve already taken the money , doctor .
little late for cold feet .
you don' t understand !
they came to see me !
they asked me about the wrist device !
who ?
two people from stargate command .
and you arranged a meeting with me ? !
what ?
you were followed .
careful with your fire we need him alive !
brooks .
go ahead .
we' ve got a small problem here .
take a locator beacon and go down to hoskins ' last position .
what happened ?
we' ve got an uninvited guest .
speak .
my lord zaren , two enemy jaffa have been captured near the gate .
one of them is the shol' va teal' c .
are you certain ?
i am .
lord ba' al will be most pleased , will he not ?
yes , of course .
you have done well .
now bring them to me .
yes , my lord .
i' m gonna ask you again , where' s colonel carter ?
i don' t know !
you' re gonna need to start co operating .
i can' t !
a decorated officer of the united states air force and a member of one of our government' s most top secret organisations is missing , and you' re implicated .
i don' t think you' re gonna just walk away from this .
they' il kill me !
we can protect you .
and we can also choose to ignore your two million dollar cayman island account .
didn' t think we' d find out about that , huh ?
so if i help you , i can keep the money ?
we can come to an arrangement .
the prisoners , my lord .
leave us .
my lord ?
i intend to question them myself .
leave us , now .
are you mad ? !
what are you doing here ?
we must speak with you .
speak with me ?
do you not realise that by coming here you have placed all our lives in danger ?
are you not in control of this garrison ?
i am , and , as such , it is my responsibility to see to it that you are tortured for information until such time that ba' al arrives to witness your execution .
so what' s it gonna be ?
you said colonel carter was missing ?
well , she' s probably on the ship .
osiris ' ship .
so you did manage to get on board .
about a year ago , some men came to see me .
they knew everything about my work , the stargate , osiris .
they knew there was a possibility that a cloaked ship had been left in orbit and they wanted it badly .
i told them that the key was the wrist device but i couldn' t get it out of there , at least not through the front door .
what do you mean ?
one day i was in the lab working on the adapter .
next thing i know i found myself on the ship .
i had remotely activated the transport beam .
which you failed to report .
it was killing me that i wasn' t able to tell anybody i' d figured it out .
i had to keep telling them it wasn' t working .
anyway , after that i went back and forth half a dozen times , but at the end of the day the wrist device was always back where it belonged .
and you beamed the others up using locator beacons .
well the beam was the only thing that worked without the command codes .
and that' s where you came in .
the translation .
osiris worked for anubis , and anubis had all his command codes translated into ancient .
once they had full control of the ship , thanks to you , they had no need for me .
they kept a permanent presence up there twenty four seven , worked in shifts .
i went back to area 51 and sabotaged the adapter .
the project was shelved and no one was the wiser .
can you get the wrist device to work again ?
absolutely .
launch window in three minutes .
ready for upgrade .
get down to the engine room ...
check the power relays .
yes , sir .
sir .
colonel carter .
welcome aboard .
where are we ?
we' re in a polar orbit around the moon ...
cloaked , of course .
this is the ship osiris left behind .
we really have to thank you .
if you hadn' t caught her , we never would have had this opportunity .
you know they' re gonna come after you .
prometheus is undergoing a refit .
they still have sublight engines .
once they realise you' re in a ship , they' il launch and even with a cloak , you' re giving off an energy signature .
we' re operating at minimal power .
maybe after a year of intensive scans , they might be able to find us , but this won' t take that long .
you' re gonna launch a chemical attack against the goa' uld .
we already have .
we' re starting with ba' al' s territory , since he is the most immediate threat right now .
you realise you' re killing millions of innocent jaffa ?
spare me , colonel .
the jaffa are a race of warriors , bred specifically to serve the goa' uld and enslave humans throughout the galaxy .
they' re indoctrinated from childhood to believe that the goa' uld are their gods .
they don' t have a choice .
so they' re just following orders , right ?
where have i heard that argument before ?
what about the rebel jaffa ?
they' re growing in numbers every day .
we consider them acceptable losses .
it' s very simple , colonel .
earth faces an imminent threat , and we have a weapon that can eliminate that threat .
we intend to use it .
we' re ready .
what' s the next target ?
p3s 114 .
dial it .
yes , sir .
you force me to choose between abandoning my mission and allowing you to die .
i would worry more about my own life if i were you , tok' ra .
m' zel !
i feel as you do , brother , but this is not the way .
why are you here ?
we know about the attacks .
what attacks ?
the tok' ra have been using the symbiont poison against the goa' uld .
jaffa of three worlds have been annihilated thus far .
impossible .
we have seen it with our own eyes .
an entire jaffa army lying dead on the ground with no wounds , no signs of battle .
how do you explain this ?
i cannot .
but i can assure you that the tok' ra are not responsible .
if these attacks had been planned , i would have been informed .
initiating launch sequence .
you can' t do this .
it' s murder .
that' s where you' re wrong , colonel ...
it' s war .
launching in three , two , one .
what was that ?
my lord .
we are under attack .
how ?
a weapon was fired through the gate .
it exploded over the ...
lord zaren !
lord zaren
brothers !
we must leave immediately !
kree !
da' nok !
you are not going anywhere , shol' va .
you do not understand .
m' zel , there may still be time .
i die ... free .
indeed .
sensor grid r 14 shows no anomalies , sir .
very well .
proceed to the next grid .
yes , sir .
she' s out there somewhere .
make it work .
our next target is p5r 357 .
let' s do it .
i wouldn' t bother .
ba' al abandoned that planet six months ago when the naqahdah mines went dry .
she' s lying .
go ahead .
waste another rocket .
that' s one less planet you' il be able to destroy .
she does have more up to date intelligence .
she' s bluffing .
you can make this a lot less painful if you help us select optimum targets .
what are you talking about ?
you know as much about the current tactical and strategic positions of the different system lords as anyone on earth .
i don' t know as much as you think .
you know enough to help us get maximum effect with minimum collateral damage .
you' re the one who wants to save innocent lives .
nice try .
so ...
are we going for p5r 357 or not ?
go to the next one on the list .
alright .
tell me again why i should agree to this ?
because it' s the only way we have to get on the ship , and if they' ve changed the command codes , i' m the one who has the best chance to decipher the ancient symbols .
and if there are ten armed goons when you get there , you' re the only that' s gonna ... get ...
better ideas ?
look , daniel , just because i don' t have a better idea is no reason to do anything .
look , once i shut down the cloak ,
prometheus will be able to pinpoint the ship' s location .
then all i have to do is disable the hyperdrive and wait for the cavalry .
they' il never see it coming !
which is one of the advantages of the totally insane idea .
yeah ...
where' d i learn that from ? !
ok .
see you soon .
access denied
access denied
come on !
system error
fine .
sir , we have something .
definitely a ship .
bearings 157 by 229 , five hundred thousand kilometres .
battle stations !
plot an intercept course .
yes , sir .
general o' neill , this is prometheus .
go ahead .
looks like doctor jackson pulled it off , sir , we have ' em on our screens and we are moving in .
understood .
we' ve got a problem .
i just monitored a sixty percent drop in our power consumption .
the cloak !
stay with her .
get up to the bridge ...
get that cloak back online .
yes , sir .
we' re in weapons range , sir .
they noticed us yet ?
i don' t think so .
they seem to be operating at minimal power , no evasive manoeuvres .
what about the hyperdrive ?
still no signal from doctor jackson .
general o' neill , we have a problem .
the ship' s cloak is down , sir , but doctor jackson has yet to confirm whether he has disabled the hyperdrive or not .
just give him a little more time .
right now , sir , they are sitting ducks .
if they spot us , they can run , and we won' t be able to catch them .
we can' t afford to let them get away , general .
i recommend we open fire immediately .
general , please advise .
where the hell did he come from ? !
he got the wrist device .
any chance there' s more of them on board ?
it only lets one person up at a time .
hoskins , this is brooks .
the cloak' s been disabled .
i don' t know if i can get it back online .
this position is compromised .
we need to get out of here now .
yes , sir .
what about them ?
we can' t take them with us .
i don' t mind going for a little ride .
me neither .
sorry about this , doctor jackson .
incoming !
this is teal' c of sg 1 .
please respond !
this is teal' c of sg 1 .
repeat , this is teal' c .
repeat , this is teal' c .
teal' c , this is daniel , we need your help , c' mon through !
somebody wanna untie me ?
cargo hold , what' s happening down there ?
cargo hold , respond .
jennings , hoskins , where the hell are you ?
what' s happening ?
she' s bringing the hyperdrive on line .
get to the gate .
they' re trying to run , sir .
dammit !
general o' neill , they are powering up their hyperdrive ...
we are out of options .
can you disable the ship without destroying it ?
i cannot give you any guarantees .
sir , we' re picking up a signal coming from inside the ship .
what is it ?
locator beacon , sir .
same frequency .
lock onto the signal ...
activate transport beam .
beam activated .
ship' s gone , sir .
cargo bay , report .
this is cargo bay .
we have the gate , sir , as well as teal' c , colonel carter and doctor jackson .
teal' c ? !
acknowledged .
general o' neill , it looks like you were right .
we have the gate and sg 1 aboard .
they' re all alive .
that' s good news .
bring ' em home .
yes , sir .
the good news is , the gate is fully operational again .
we can resume offworld missions immediately .
and the bad news is , the trust now has a fully functional goa' uld al' kesh .
we' ve installed jamming devices around the gate to prevent any locator beams from operating in the future .
what of the tok' ra poison ?
well , they left most of it behind , but they still have enough to wipe out at least half a dozen goa' uld worlds .
in retrospect , maybe you should have destroyed the ship when you had the chance .
yeah .
tough choice .
