what happened until now
my son !
go now !
who are you , boy ?
what happened ?
i can' t remember .
fire will rain down from the sky very soon .
with the fire a man will come .
the warrior' s strength will match your own .
he will even best you in battle .
do you believe in destiny ?
we were meant to meet .
you' re the queen of iceland ?
yes .
does that make a difference ?
no .
not to how i feel about you .
i will love you forever .
don' t stare at the princess .
i' m not staring !
she is , though !
lord hagen .
fafnir the dragon is awake .
you must convince king gunther to gather his best warriors and kill fafnir .
i too ask to join your quest against the dragon .
that task is only for those warriors most honoured and favoured by the king .
to the forest of fafnir !
the dragon' s hide was hard as iron .
our weapons were useless against it .
he will be revenged , my lady !
i swear it !
this gold is not for humankind .
it belongs to us .
that is the ring of the nibelung , the oldest thing in the hoard .
the one who possesses it , is the treasur' s owner .
it comes with a curse !
fafnir is the evidence .
heed our warning , or you too will pay .
what sorcery' s this ?
the magical tarnhelm .
with it you can wear any shape you desire .
his name is alberich , and he was one of us .
but greed awoke in alberich .
he wanted the treasure all for himself .
like you .
it' s all mine now .
eric the blacksmith killed the dragon !
fafnir is dead !
i command that eric , the blacksmith , be proclaimed a hero of the kingdom !
even the honour of guarding the treasure would bring fame to burgund , my lord , once it is known that you have been entrusted with the safety of the hoard .
defeat dragons with iron , but win maidens with gold !
my heart is pledged already .
would i know her ?
no .
she lives far away .
and i will marry no one else , hallbera .
not a prince , not a king , not the roman emperor himself .
i will bring my love with me to xanten as my wife .
but you' re going to come with me !
i have no more travelling left in me .
i' ve hardly even breath anymore .
they call me erik , the blacksmith , erik , the dragonslayer , and erik , the hero of burgund .
i am siegfried !
son of siegmund , king of xanten .
you' re beaten , and your kingdoms will be devided between the kings of burgund and xanten .
i want him tied to the house of burgund forever .
my sister will marry siegfried of xanten .
and i' m sure you will not find this too difficult to arrange .
what do you have in mind ?
one of your cantrips , spells , potions .
if he could forget his other love , and ... find the princess attractive instead , then the gold stays where it is .
so near to my heart and my mind and yet so far from my arms and my body .
how much longer ?
how much farther ?
all he must do , is to drink this , mixed with wine .
and as long as it is you who gives him the cup , any love for any other woman would be forgotten , and only you will burn in his heart from that moment on .
1' 500 years ago , most of europe ... had abandoned its own believes and turned to the christian faith .
only in the north did the people hold on to the gods of their ancestors .
the most powerful of these gods was odin .
he reigned among the stars in valhalla , and his ravens ... gave him wisdom and memory .
but whilst the fire of the ancient powers faded ... a wondrous tale arose , that captured the hearts of the people .
the dragon gold .
king siegfried of xanten !
i thank you for your hospitality .
you were always welcome !
i know that the treasure ... has brought you and your kingdom great misfortune and blood shed , and for that i truly apologize .
many wars are fought for gold ... and treasures .
no army has ever waged war with a hero such as you among them .
you didn' t destroy lives !
you saved them .
you' ve done the kingdom of burgund a great service .
thank you , my king .
king siegfried , would you join us in a toast before you leave ?
this is a special wine of burgund , mixed with spices .
to siegfried of xanten !
to the hero who arrived a blacksmith and leaves a king !
to king siegfried of xanten .
to king siegfried of xanten .
good wine ...
though the spices gave it a strange flavour .
where are gunther and hagen ?
they left .
will you make it again for me some time , only with less cinnamon ?
of course , i will .
but first i must confess something .
what ?
at the dragon feast ... you told a masked girl that your heart was already pledged to somebody else .
so it was you .
forgive me , i couldn' t say anything because ...
please , it doesn' t matter , because i love you and i don' t know ... why it never occurred to me .
nothing matters now ,
except that you love me ,
and i love you .
where might my raven be ?
i' m proud that burgund has won you as brother in law .
nobody could bring more honour to our kingdom than you , siegfried .
i want to make your sister my queen before i return to my kingdom .
unfortunately in our kingdom , the law decrees that the king must marry before any of his siblings .
how long do we have to wait then ?
it' s not that simple .
the queen i desire is a beautiful and powerful woman who challenges ... her suitors to single combat .
till now , nobody has proved ... strong enough to defeat her .
and who is this powerful woman ?
her name is brunhild .
queen of iceland .
i' ve met her once .
you know her ?
yes .
her ship sailed by our smithy one day .
how could i forget ?
she' s of extraordinary beauty .
but you said you' ve met her ?
i did .
that night a star fell from the sky ... into the forest near our smithy .
we met by the crater it made , and we fought .
but why ?
i mistook her for a saxon , and i wrestled her down .
you mistook the queen of iceland for a saxon ?
how did she react ?
she was a little surprised , that' s all .
siegfried , she is the woman i wish to marry .
would you help me win her for burgund' s queen ?
how ?
by fighting her in my stead .
wouldn' t she notice ?
not if you wear that magic helmet of yours .
these powers shouldn' t be abused .
only you could defeat her .
king gunther has given you his only sister in marriage .
will you not help him win a queen for himself ?
think , siegfried ... if i marry brunhild , you and kriemhild can be married the very same day .
i knew what the wagons were carrying , when they came , but i had no idea it could look so beautiful .
it' s yours .
mine ?
the treasure is my wedding gift to you .
but this ring ... is the symbol of our love .
wear it till i come back from iceland .
every day without you will be an eternity .
come back soon .
and bring my brother back safely .
my king , we found a stowaway , hidden amidst the stores .
throw him over the side !
i think you should see him first .
giselher !
are you insane ?
i only wanted to see the norse women , the great valkyries who fight like men !
why , giselher ?
do you want a warrior woman of your own ?
why didn' t you ask me ?
i' ve always asked you , and you' ve always turned me down .
your have to look after burgund .
and kriemhild will be worried about you !
kriemhild knows .
i' ve half a mind to send you back !
oh , come on , gunther .
what boy doesn' t crave an adventure like this ?
sit down .
and those are the seven silver apples of the goddess of youth .
you know a lot !
not as much as my father eyvind did .
see over there , that' s orwandil , the giant , and next to it is fearr , the bull that he hunts , and see there , that' s the spirits ' road , the bright road to valhalla .
the gods sit up there with the holy dead , and decide what we should do to help them save the world ... how do we find out what they want ?
they send us signs .
in water , fire , or in the sky .
what happens if we read those signs wrong ?
i don' t know .
he' s coming , your future husband is coming !
siegfried .
rise the sails .
yes , sir .
rise the sails !
welcome to my country , tamer of the fire and the elements .
at last , you' ve found your way to me .
the dragonslayer' s fame reaches even here .
it is not i who come to challenge you , great queen .
it is king gunther of burgund who seeks your hand .
i only serve him !
my queen ... i come here to seek your hand in marriage .
we will fight a duel of double bladed axes .
if you win , i will wed you .
if i win , it will cost you your life .
if i fail to make you my wife , i will die gladly .
the contest commences in one hour .
giselher .
let' s wait outside .
shadows and vapours , all the same ...
just stay hidden until it' s done .
what about siegfried ?
he' il follow us later .
the dragonslayer doesn' t join you ?
he is already preparing the ship ... for our return .
the axes !
you can still sail back to burgund alive !
come on !
here !
come on !
bow to my future husband .
the king of burgund , now the king of iceland .
leave until i call you , and close the door .
they make no sense , lady .
look there .
that means a cloak or a mask .
something or someone ... has been hidden .
the way truth is hidden by lies , or eyes are covered by a blindfold .
is that why siegfried didn' t recognize me ?
there is nothing here .
the gods are silent .
ever since you came to burgund in the guise of a humble blacksmith , many good things have happened in our kingdom .
now around this table are the two men i love most in the world .
giselher is my brother by birth , and it would please me if you ... would become our brother by blood .
the dragon' s blood made my skin impenetrable .
but i guess tonight is a night for trust .
this is the only place where i can be wounded .
and now both of you share the greatest secret i have .
this cup will hold no lesser drink than the blood of brotherhood .
it will be raised in no lesser toast .
and may those who betray that trust , die dishonoured and accursed .
people of burgund !
your queen !
i present my sister kriemhild .
i' il be a sister to you as well !
we will celebrate two weddings on one day .
where' s my tarnhelm ?
i' m not done with it yet .
you can have it in due course .
that wasn' t the deal , hagen !
i' m not sure if it worked .
it worked !
it worked !
and now you' re trying to cheat me .
perhaps i should find a way ... to have a little talk with the king .
no , no .
no need for that .
i' il do it .
queen brunhild .
can i help you ?
i waited for you , as i said i would .
siegfried .
what happened ?
did you find you couldn' t love a queen as well as you did a passing stranger ?
or was it the gold ?
that has turned many hearts cold before .
i don' t know .
who shall i ask ... why you loved me then , and don' t love me now ?
i didn' t ... don' t lie to me .
you cannot claim you didn' t want me then !
it was your first time , blacksmith .
and mine as well .
and i knew then that the gods had sent you to me ... and me to you .
and you knew it too !
does that mean nothing ?
that' s not how i remember it .
and you never loved me ?
even though you said you did .
i was a boy then ... if this is what manhood brings , i only wish i' d learned this lesson sooner , but it' s too late now .
perhaps i should pray ... that i too will remember our love so little , because i will never know joy again ... till i forget or you remember .
king gunther , do you take brunhild as your wife and queen ?
i do !
and do you , brunhild , accept my king as your rightful husband and lord ?
i do .
do you , kriemhild , take siegfried as your lawful wedded husband ?
i do .
king siegfried , do you take kriemhild as your lawful wedded wife ?
i do .
i now pronounce you man and wife .
this warlike display shows our burgund swords ... and warriors at their finest .
they could only be bettered ... by the great queen brunhild and the extraordinary king gunther .
those few of us who were privileged to travel with king gunther to iceland , witnessed a display of incomparable skills .
he was the only man who could match his beautiful queen in her challenge .
siegfried could .
but siegfried didn' t .
would he like to try ?
it would be an honour , queen brunhild .
what weapons shall we choose then ?
weapons that were forged from the same ore and have never been crossed .
my spear ... and your sword !
thank you for this chance to recognize my limits .
what happened ?
i was tired .
i decided to lie down .
that' s not what i meant .
why did you leave without me ?
siegfried .
our fight in public .
but you won !
he let me win .
that was not an honest victory .
he was lucky , that' s all .
maybe he gave up , so he wouldn' t go to his marriage bed covered with bruises !
you' re the only woman i' ve ever really wanted !
and do you have me ?
or do you ?
you want me , my strong husband ?
i' m waiting .
no more of this !
i' ve drunk too much tonight to deal with such foolishness .
the man who defeated me hadn' t drunk too much .
what ?
or then again maybe you had been drinking .
some magical potions to give you strength , perhaps ?
my strength is a gift from the gods , and it lies in this belt .
once you' ve removed it , you' il find a yielding maiden in your arms !
can the man who survived my challenge not survive his own wedding night ?
brunhild !
well !
stop ... untie me !
stop this !
untie me !
untie me right now !
be quiet now !
wife , are you mad ?
let me loose !
gunther is a lucky man .
not as lucky as i am .
don' t you think brunhild' s beautiful ?
what a question here and now !
siegfried , answer me !
alright , yes .
but it' s a hard beauty .
you' ve noticed it then ... what ?
that coldness .
well , she' s certainly angry about being defeated by gunther .
i don' t think she likes me much .
maybe because you won your husband without having to fight him .
you hear that ?
that' s thor , swinging his hammer .
probably to tell us about the new little war god who will be conceived tonight !
giselher .
you don' t really believe in all this pagan nonsense , do you ?
i do !
and so does siegfried .
and he' s the greatest hero burgund has ever known !
in living life by the sword .
and i' m going to do the same .
and when i die , i will be rewarded by sitting at the warriors ' table , next to father odin himself !
you should hear yourself !
don' t the old ways fascinate you ?
no , they don' t !
they scare me .
the powers in it are uncontrollable , dangerous .
anyway , it' s not the way we were brought up .
lena .
i didn' t mean to hurt you .
brunhild , please don' t let the servants see me like this .
i promise , i' il never try to subdue you again .
then let this be a lesson to you .
i might be captive in this gilded cage , but i' il never be your wife !
gunther .
siegfried .
what' s the matter ?
blood brother , can i speak openly , and know you won' t tell anyone else ?
of course !
the queen ... we haven' t ... i mean ...
what ?
she won' t let me into her bed .
i' m sorry .
and burgund needs an heir .
i must have a son !
if there was anything i could do , i would .
but this is not a battle ... i can win for you .
your strength is greater than hers !
and her strength doesn' t even come from her own body .
it comes from her pagan belt .
now , if you could get it away from her ... no !
no , gunther !
i' m only asking you to take her belt , not ... substitute for me some other way !
you' d refuse to help the man who gave you his own sister ?
your magic tarnhelm worked for us ... in iceland , blood brother .
but if you don' t use it here tonight ... then all of that' s been wasted , and my marriage is a joke ...
shadows and vapours , all the same .
good night , my king .
lena !
you two go ahead !
i have to tell you something .
i love you , too .
he just passed this way .
something very strange ...
is happening here .
i just want us to be happy together , to be man and wife .
look at you , my king .
you are a match for me , are you not ?
after all you defeated me in iceland .
well , well .
my king regains his steel !
strange how it comes and goes without warning .
listen !
i don' t want to fight .
i love you !
prove it .
that' s what i needed to know .
siegfried ?
now you can be my husband .
where are you going ?
to get rid of this pagan witchery .
and when i return , i expect you to be my wife .
do you swear to keep this secret ?
in iceland i saw two gunthers too !
when my brother returned of this victory of a queen brunhild , it wasn' t gunther who arrived in the room .
it was siegfried .
gunther had been hiding in there all the time .
i know it wasn' t my brother who defeated brunhild .
it was siegfried !
where have you been ?
kriemhild !
why aren' t you in bed ?
i woke up , and you weren' t there .
i couldn' t get back to sleep without you , so i waited .
what' s that in your hand ?
nothing important .
let me see .
a woman' s belt ?
why try to hide it ?
it' s not what you think !
we' ve only been married one day .
your brother needed me !
what for ?
that i cannot tell you .
why not ?
i promised not to .
i swear before all the gods , that i remain your true and faithful husband .
so why won' t you answer my questions ?
what kind of help did my brother ... need from you that took you from your bed at this hour ?
what kind of help leaves a woman' s belt in your hand ?
if i told you , i would be breaking a vow of utmost secrecy .
break it .
open the doors for us , please .
i cannot do that , my lady .
cannot ?
why not ?
orders from the queen .
what ?
no one may enter the church until the queen has done so .
are you joking ?
open the doors !
we cannot , lady kriemhild .
brunhild , how dare you order the doors of this place closed to me ?
i am the king' s own sister !
and i am his wife , the queen !
it is only right that i should enter before any other lesser royals .
step aside now and let your queen pass !
you' re no queen of mine , brunhild !
and how dare you refer to my husband as lesser than anyone ?
he even introduced himself in iceland as gunther' s servant !
he certainly served your husband well when he defeated you last night !
what did you say ?
you heard me .
it was also my husband who conquered you in iceland .
you insult the queen of burgund in public with these lies ?
so first i' m a servant' s wife and now i' m a liar ?
do you recognize this ?
who gave you that ?
my husband !
do you believe me now ?
he took it from you last night , in your own bedroom .
it surprises me that you couldn' t tell .
now get out of my way .
i do not get how you could reveal my and your brothers most intimate secret , in front of the whole of burgund .
kriemhild , i only broke my vow because i counted on your discretion .
i know .
i am sorry .
please forgive me .
i love you more than life , and now i' m terrified ... that something awful will happen and somehow we' il be parted .
no more tears .
in two days we' il be far away from this place , from your brother ... and the complications of his marriage .
he was wrong ... to make you a part of it .
he took advantage of your loyalty .
but it' s over now .
i' il attend the hunt with him , and we' il part as friends .
today i give orders for the gold to be loaded onto our ship .
as soon as ... the hunt is done , we can be on our way .
can' t it be done any sooner ?
can' t we leave immediately ?
i wish , but we cannot give your brother the impression that we leave , bearing him ill will .
i told you he was not to be trusted .
what justice can i ... possibly administer to put this right ?
the simple justice ...
laid down in our books of law may not be sufficient in this case .
he used magic to help you , it' s true .
but what other use has he made of it ?
you' ve heard the people praise him more than you .
your brother in law has a legitimate claim to the throne of burgund .
what' s he planning next , my king ?
your downfall ?
you told me the presence of that hoard in my chamber would only bring me good !
even if the queen gets a child by you , every tongue in burgund will wag ... with the gossip that it' s really siegfried' s bastard !
the kingdom is already ripe with this scandal .
it won' t go away .
it will taint to you and your house ... till the end of your days unless something is done .
i' il end the alliance and send him away .
let him live out his days in xanten .
it' s not enough .
you may not care if men scorn you as a weakling and a cuckold .
but what about me ?
i was betrayed by the dragonslayer and by you .
i am the queen of iceland and burgund .
i will not be dishonoured .
i will be avenged .
there is only one punishment fit for such a crime .
what would you have me do ?
it' s very simple .
siegfried must die .
you can' t mean it !
he' s my friend .
my blood brother !
after what we' ve shared ... a betrayal like that .
i can' t just have him killed !
either you will kill him ... or i will kill myself .
my king , perhaps his punishment could come about " accidentally " ... at the hunt tomorrow .
you know siegfried is invincible .
and you know as well as i that he is not .
king siegfried , shall we ride together ?
may i join you as well ?
i' d be honoured !
queen brunhild ?
queen brunhild , please let me talk to you .
our trouble has to be settled .
please , queen brunhild .
i have something that' s rightfully yours which i must return .
indeed you have something that is rightfully mine .
but it' s far too late to return it .
you christians make much of forgiveness .
don' t look for such in me .
i don' t , queen brunhild .
all i can do is say how bitter my sorrow is for the way i treated you in front ... of the cathedral .
i was jealous .
when i thought of what seemed to be happening , i couldn' t bear it .
once i loved a man whom i thought the gods themselves had sent me .
i loved the whole world because he was in it .
long we were parted , but i could bear it ... because i knew he would return one day .
but when he came again , it was as if his heart had been wiped clean .
i loved him as i had , but he did not love me .
we were strangers , as before we had been lovers .
siegfried ?
siegfried .
i have done you a terrible wrong .
let' s speak no more about the church .
i am not speaking of the cathedral .
i speak of something far worse .
what are you talking about ?
you have done me no other greater harm .
once i loved a man who did not love me , and i could not bear it , for the world was an empty place without him .
so when hagen came to me with an unholy thing , that would banish the memory of old loves and plant a new one there .
i blinded myself to what was right , and gave it to that man to drink .
it was hagen' s magic .
siegfried never knew .
even if he did , there would be nothing ... he could do against it .
that is my great sin against you , and him , and i will do penance for it for the rest of my life .
so i' m not the only one who got lucky .
well done , brother .
have a drink with us .
i' il wash the blood up , first .
brunhild ...
is siegfried not back ?
we should leave before dark .
i' il go and get him .
siegfried ?
siegfried !
no !
help .
help !
help !
somebody help !
arminius !
there was an ambush .
a group of saxons .
murderer !
how can you accuse me ?
what reason would i have to kill a man who' s done us so much good ?
envy , and guilt , and greed !
with siegfried dead , you wouldn' t have to face your own weakness and dishonour .
and with him dead , you could keep the hoard for yourself !
all of it .
the hoard !
i don' t want it anymore !
you always wanted the gold for yourself !
that' s why you slew him !
we planned it together !
you' il never have the gold !
but the gold is my nibelung birth right !
you insolent son of a dwarf !
keep out of this , boy !
he murdered our king !
i order you to arrest him !
those who ally themselves with me , will be rewarded with gold " from the hoard " .
and finally betrayed as he betrayed me !
hagen of tronje , face the fate my gods have chosen !
your gods are dead !
soon we will know !
return this ring to it' s rightful owner .
take it back to the nibelungs .
d ave day yah fryn dr .
dayre syolw ra ith sama .
arminius .
today the old gods live again !
no , giselher .
today the old gods will die with them .
