previously on stargate sg 1
who are you people ?
we are replicators .
the others would destroy me .
not if you came with us .
you would do that ?
they won t leave me .
she promised .
no , my son .
they made a fool of you .
i' ve been relieved of command .
who' s replacing you sir ?
her name is doctor elizabeth weir .
a civilian ?
she' s an expert in international politics .
terra , atlantis .
are you saying the lost city of the ancients is here ?
the city we' ve been looking for is under the ice at antarctica .
goodbye .
doctor weir .
elizabeth
elizabeth .
almost ready .
i can' t believe we' re finally going .
i know i should have been ready a long time ago , but i needed some materials .
the talks have stalled again .
you' re kidding me .
it' s a complicated situation .
the antarctic treaty was established to promote scientific research in the area .
with the interest or progress for all mankind .
not just the united states .
so argue the other 11 nations , all claiming shared jurisdiction .
article 1 states quite clearly , there can be no establishment of any military base , and no testing of any weapons .
you saw first hand how powerful the ancient outpost is .
so in the meanwhile , jack just stays frozen in a stasis pod down there ?
he sacrificed himself to save us , all of us .
not just this country .
i know , but the scale of anubis ' attack , makes covering it up , tenuous at best .
if we' re going to keep the entire world from finding out everything to do with the stargate .
we' re going to need the full co operation of every government , now aware of what' s been going on .
it' s just going to take more time .
and in the meantime , we just sit here and do nothing .
i' m sorry doctor jackson .
daniel .
daniel
saison 8 episode 01 02 new order
what can' t we use the gate ?
it' s not that we can' t use it .
officially , all normal gate activity will remain suspended .
it will just be until the agreement for the control of the antarctic site is resolved .
what does one have to do with the other .
while we obviously still have full jurisdictional control over the stargate , the president feels that ultimately , how we proceed with operations here at sgc , will reflect on our international good will .
in other words , it' s our political leverage in negotiations .
i would never say that .
what about colonel o' neill ?
look , i know what he means to the three of you .
we all appreciate the sacrifice , colonel o' neill made .
the asgard can help him .
last time they were able to erase the ancient knowledge from his mind , before it killed him .
we' ve tried contacting them .
what do you suggest we do ?
you' re aware of how we helped the asgard trap the replicators in a time dilation field on the planet halla .
something to that effect , yes .
that was a couple of years ago , right ?
basically we know that , that trap is only going to hold them for so long .
thor and the asgard must be monitoring the situation .
if we can get there , we should be able to contact them .
isn' t the planet you' re talking about , in another galaxy ?
othalla .
o' neill used his knowledge of the ancients , to modify the goa' uld vessel , currently in our possession .
according to your report major , that ship is capable of flying faster and farther , than even the goa' uld have .
yes .
i think it might just get us there .
and back ?
that might be a problem .
there' s a good chance the trip will burn out the engines .
that' s a big problem .
if you get there and it turns out , you can' t contact the asgard ?
we' re willing to take the risk .
as admirable as that is .
i can' t let you do it .
for what reason ?
colonel o' neill was able to fend off anubis ' fleet , using the weapons from the ancients outpost .
hopefully , that will make the other goa' uld think twice about attacking earth in the foreseeable future .
but the truth is , we don' t know if we' re going to be able to use those weapons again , and if we can' t , we' re going to need a new tactical advantage over the goa' uld .
at least that' s what the pentagon tells me .
the modified cargo ship , it' s too valuable right now , i' m sorry .
request denied .
what can i do for you major ?
i want you to reconsider my request .
i' m sorry .
that cargo ship was modified using the knowledge of the ancients .
now there is no guarantee that anyone will ever be able to figure out how it was done .
and as the most likely person on the planet to figure it out , are you saying that if i don' t let you attempt to contact the asgard , you won' t even try ?
i would never say that .
right now , that is the most advanced piece of technology we have .
if it weren' t for colonel o' neill , we wouldn' t have that ship .
for that matter , we wouldn' t even be here discussing this .
we got the co ordinates from the prometheus .
now based on the amount of time it took for the modified ship to get from taonas to earth ,
i' m estimating that our trip to othalla will take roughly ten days .
hey !
so how did you talk weir into letting us go ?
i didn' t .
i talked her into letting us go .
you' re staying here .
daniel , even with the modifications to the ship , there' s no guarantee it' il even get us there , and if it does , there' s a good chance that it' il burn out the engines .
the ship was never mean' t to fly at that speed , which means , if we don' t find the asgard , we' il be stranded .
i know .
we need you here .
you' re our best chance of deciphering whatever information is in that ancient outpost .
if we fail , you will be o' neills only hope .
hey teal' c .
can i get you anything ?
i packed lots of turkey , i know that' s your favourite .
thank you , but i am not currently hungry .
have you been able to determine how o' neill modified the engines ?
no , i' m just taking a break .
i didn' t think it would be easy , but at least it' s a good way to pass the time .
i' m sorry , have i been ignoring you ?
i' m fine .
i thought maybe working on the engines would take my mind off colonel o' neill , which is kind of silly , considering he' s the one who modified them .
look , i know this plan isn' t exactly foolproof .
i' ve never plotted an intergalactic course before .
if the co ordinates are off by even one half of a percent , we could wind up ten thousand light years from our destination .
but still , i' m trying to stay positive .
i have the utmost confidence in your ability .
i know .
so , you wanna talk ?
concerning what subject ?
i don' t know .
how' s ryac ?
fine .
are you still keeping in touch with ishta ?
indeed .
bra' tac ?
bra' tac is well .
come on teal' c .
throw me a bone here .
how is pete shanahan ?
he' s fine .
is all not well , between the two of you ?
no , everything is great .
it' s just , as you well know , it' s not easy saying goodbye to someone you care about , when you think there' s a chance you may never see them again .
i know that' s a risk we take every time we step through the stargate , but still , i try to stay positive .
i' il get you a sandwich .
daniel
elizabeth .
i was just wondering if you' d heard anything .
they' re still bogged down .
it' s been over a week .
what did you expect .
a quick round of handshakes .
champagne toast to seal the deal ?
we were attacked from space by an armada of alien ships , if that doesn' t get us past our distrust of each other , what will ?
you forget that those alien ships were destroyed by a single weapon .
i mean , that kind of power is going to give anyone cause for concern .
yep .
not that i want this to come off as an attempt to get rid of you , but isn' t this sort of international negotiation exactly your area of expertise ?
unauthorized offworld activation !
receiving a signal .
it' s a text message .
it' s goa' uld .
what does it say ?
it' s from one of the system lords , camulus , celtic god of war .
i' m not familiar with him .
i never had contact with him before .
woow yeah , of course , woow ?
sorry , it say' s he wants to arrange a meeting for the purpose of negotiating a treaty .
a goa' uld wants to arrange a treaty with us ?
not just one goa' uld .
all of them .
the system lords .
they want to send representatives here .
we are preparing to emerge from hyper space .
as soon as we drop out , i' il start broadcasting a signal .
the asgard are monitoring the region , they should find us .
should we not be able to see the planet ?
yes .
we' re experiencing the effects of an extremely powerful gravitational force .
somethings not right .
teal' c , turn us around and get us out of here , now .
hyperspace generator will not engage .
sublight engines are at maximum , yet we are not moving .
there' s only one thing i know of that could create this kind of gravitational pull .
you sure that this is an accurate translation of the message ?
pretty much .
what do you make of it .
well to be honest , i' m not sure what to think .
the goa' uld did come here once to negotiate a treaty .
yes , with the aguard , not with us .
earth just served as neutral territory .
for them to want to meet with us as equals is extremely unusual .
maybe we gained a bit of respect , in their eyes .
they must have heard what happened to anubis .
they couldn' t defeat him with all of their combined forces , and we did it in a single day .
which may explain why they want to come here .
yeah , to see how we did it .
it' s pretty much what we expected .
we burned out the hyperdrive getting here .
that is most unfortunate .
even if it was working , it would have been very dangerous to open a window , this close to the event horizon of the black hole .
are we that far off course ?
no , we came out of hyperspace , right where we were supposed to .
this doesn' t make any sense .
halla' s sun wasn' t nearly massive enough to collapse into a black hole .
yet that is what appears to be happening .
i' il see if i can get a little more out of the sublight engines .
the president has authorized me to pursue negotiations with the goa' uld .
ok .
you don' t think i can handle it ?
i didn' t say that , but if i may , you don' t sound all that confident .
well as you say , i have brokered my share of international negotiations .
this will just be my first interplanetary one .
the system lords can' t be trusted , either as a group , or individuals .
they' re posturing ego maniacs , driven by an insatiable lust for power .
each one capable of unimaginable evil .
see ?
why should i be nervous ?
seems like an average day at the united nations .
look , i' m not afraid to admit that i need help .
so what can you tell me ?
the high council of the system lords , is a rather flimsy coalition of the most powerful goa' ulds in the galaxy .
they only co operate when it suits them .
their numbers vary from time to time .
new one' s rise up .
older one' s get knocked off .
we think there' s about a dozen right now .
i put together a summary of what we know .
right .
i assume i can' t just open the iris and let the representative' s just walk through .
no , that would probably be a bad idea .
we should get them to meet us at a neutral location .
preferably a planet of our choosing .
send a team , check them out , make sure they' re unarmed , and then escort them back .
good .
send the message .
we are now being pulled backwards .
perhaps if we divert power from the shields .
right now they' re the only thing holding the ship together .
drop them , the gravitational field could tear us apart .
i do not believe there is any other choice .
diverting power .
we are now moving forward .
it' s not gonna be good enough .
we' re losing hull integrity .
we' ve got a hull breach !
greetings !
thor .
it is good to see you again , major carter , teal' c .
likewise .
indeed .
your timing is impeccable .
so the goa' uld have agreed to our terms , for their travel here ?
yeah .
i was just going over some research material , the delegates were sending .
camulus was the one who sent the original message , then there' s amaterasu ,
japanese sun goddess , and the last one is lord yu .
yu ?
don' t .
every joke , every pun , done to death , seriously .
i just thought i remember reading he was not himself or something .
of course , for a goa' uld , what that means exactly , i' m not sure .
please continue .
well he no longer has the ability to take on a new host and it seems the regenerative powers of the sarcophagus , is losing it' s effectiveness forhim .
basically he' s suffering from old age .
he' s senile .
well why would they choose him as a representative ?
the others may be doing a good job of covering for him .
the other system lords don' t know .
the interesting thing is , that lord yu , was the one system lord who opposed anubis ' desire to be reinstated to the council after his banishment .
long story .
the point is , he fell out of favour , when the other system lords accepted anubis back ,
and he used his power to become an effective leader .
so now that anubis is gone , you think the balance of power has shifted back to yu .
on the bright side , out of all the goa' uld , lord yu has been the most cooperative with us in the past .
i thought you said , none of them could be trusted .
oh , they can' t .
especially not a crazy one .
that' s the bright side ?
more of a slightly less , dark side .
i am afraid i cannot leave this sector , major .
not at the moment .
thor , you' re the only one who can save colonel o' neill .
as you have said , he is being preserved in stasis at the moment .
i will be glad to return with you to earth , as soon as my mission here is completed .
what is your mission ?
i must wait here until i am certain the replicators have been destroyed .
you may have noticed that halla' s sun has collapsed into a black hole .
just before the back of our ship was torn off .
i' m sorry i did not reach you sooner .
i was not expecting you .
you haven' t been responding to our attempts to contact you .
i' m sorry .
time , space distortions , caused by the black hole , have been interfering with my ships long range communications .
understandable .
indeed .
for some .
the time dilation field , was only a temporary measure .
we knew the time it would take for the replicator humans to reach the machine , would translate to less than two years outside the field .
therefore , a more permanent solution was devised .
so , you collapsed the sun .
by artificially increasing it' s gravitational field , yes .
that' s pretty cool .
as you can see .
the planet has already broken apart .
however , a large number of replicators have managed to come together in a coherent mass that has yet to pass the event horizon .
well , even if they can withstand the gravitational force without being torn apart .
there' s no way they could ever ...
interesting
what is it ?
the mass of replicator blocks have begun moving away from the event horizon .
how is that possible ?
they have the time dilation device .
i do not know exactly how .
they seem to have used it to counteract the gravitational effects , that should be pulling them in .
frightening .
not only that they could do that , but that you don' t know how .
i agree .
they are picking up speed .
scans indicate , the blocks have formed together .
into what ?
a ship .
they are escaping .
their course indicates , they are headed this way .
i thought you were going to stand me up .
yeah , sorry .
heard anything from teal' c and sam ?
no .
receiving a signal now .
sg7 reports that we have a green light .
open the iris
welcome to earth .
allow me to introduce myself .
we are not interested in your name .
really ?
i generally find it helps so much .
we prefer to present our offer , so that we can spend as brief a time as possible on this planet .
right this way .
have you ever seen anything like it ?
no , and it is doubtful my ships weapons will be effective against it .
we should probably get out of here then , huh ?
can you jump into hyperspace ?
we must clear the gravitational distortion from above the black hole first .
they have fired upon us .
can it penetrate your shields ?
it is more than likely .
brace for impact .
the hull has been breached .
where ?
the damage is minimal .
the projectile was likely composed of replicators .
they are not visible to my ships scanners .
this is how they have boarded asgard ships , in the past .
can you use the shields to prevent decompression in those sections ?
yes .
your unexpected defeat of anubis , has created an unstable situation among the system lords .
in order to avoid open war , we came to an agreement , to divide his territories and his armies , evenly .
how civilised of you .
yes , unfortunately one of those among us , has broken that agreement .
no , no , no .
don' t tell me , let me guess .
it' s ...
ba' al .
ba' al .
he was able to learn the location of the planet , where anubis was creating his kull warriors .
ba' al thought of it before you did and found a way to program the soldiers to serve him .
with orac at his command .
ba' al has tipped the balance , in his favour .
orac ?
unspeakable .
in battle , the kull are far superior to the jaffa .
already , many among us have begun to speak of capitulation .
much as they did with anubis .
if that happens .
ba' al , will indeed , be unstoppable .
well this is all very interesting i' m sure , but i fail to see what it has to do with us .
my master wishes to say , it is well known that the tauri possess a powerful new weapon .
something far beyond their current level of technology .
yes , we used it to kill anubis and destroy his fleet .
by means of this weapon , ba' al can be prevented from conquering the galaxy .
major carter !
thor , it is teal' c .
major carter was beamed away .
is she in your presence ?
i did not do it .
the replicators must have her .
i have eliminated all of the replicators i could locate .
there is no way of knowing if there are more .
the replicator ship has entered hyperspace .
can you follow ?
yes .
if ba' al defeats us , how long do you think it will be before he turns his attention to you ?
if he does he' il suffer the same fate as anubis .
perhaps , but there are other worlds in this galaxy , without the luxury of such advanced defences .
what are you talking about ?
we could not help but notice that the asgard did not come to your aid , when anubis threatened your planet .
in fact , we' ve heard nothing from the asgard for quite some time now .
really ?
that' s odd , because we talk to them all the time .
the asgard didn' t come, because they knew it wasn' t necessary .
ba' al believes otherwise .
he is convinced the asgard can no longer excercise power in this galaxy .
he intends to take the planets protected under the goa' uld/ asgard treaty , for himself .
if you do not help us stop him , millions of humans will die .
and millions will be enslaved .
do you know it' s destination ?
before you destroyed them , the replicators managed to access the shp computer .
they learned the location of orilla .
the planet where we are attempting to rebuild the asgard civilisation .
i assumed it would be their first target .
what is your reasoning ?
orilla is rich in neutronium .
which is a key element in asgard technology .
it is also essential for the creation of human form replicators .
major carter .
fifth .
i imagine you never expected to see me again .
look , i' m sorry we left you behind , but we had to do it .
we couldn' t risk the others getting out .
you know what they' re capable of .
i know you must be upset .
upset .
we betrayed you , it must of hurt .
see that' s the part of you that' s most like us .
the human part of you .
i understand how you feel .
no you don' t !
you couldn' t .
but i promise , you will .
how many planets are protected under this treaty ?
26 .
27 if you include earth .
and what good is it if the asgard aren' t actually available to protect anything ?
at one time they were .
more recently we' ve been trading on the threat .
kind of a big bluff .
phrase manquante
unfortunately , there' s nothing we can do about that .
earth is safe so long as the goa' uld think we can defend ourselves .
but that' s a bluff too .
yeah .
more or less .
when i was a kid , my dad used to have these weekly poker games .
all i remember is smoke , making my eyes water .
i' m starting to wish i' d paid more attention .
i' m sure you' ve misrepresented the truth before in negotiations .
actually no .
my job is usualy to get people recognize the truth .
well if they even get a hint of the fact that we can' t use the ancients weapons to defend ourselves , trust me , this game is over .
too dramatic ?
at this point , not for me .
how can we stop them ?
my ships weapons will not function in hyperspace , much like the shields .
however , in close proximity , the self destruct may be sufficient to eliminate both ships .
i am sorry , but we have no choice .
if the human form replicators reach orilla , they will have the resources to replicate many thousands of times .
we cannot allow that to happen .
so be it .
why are you doing this ?
you think you deserve better ?
you can see my thoughts , you know i didn' t wanna do it .
i suppose in a way , i should thank you .
it was because of what you did to me , i came to realise my full potential .
i am more human than the others .
at first i thought it was weakness , but now i see , it makes me capable of so much more .
fifth , please .
my brothers and sisters , will devour entire civilisations , in order to replicate .
but they will know nothing of cruelty , or betrayal , or revenge .
not like us .
isn' t that right ,
major carter ?
no .
we appreciate you bringing us this information , but it doesn' t change the fact that we can' t get involved in any internal goa' uld dispute , and if ba' al tries to attack any of the protected planets , he' il suffer the consequences .
unfortunately , we do not share your faith in the asgard .
we must stop ba' al before it comes to that .
you' il forgive my bluntness , but that' s not our problem .
enough !
with each passing moment , anubis grows more powerful .
you mean ba' al .
my master is fatigued .
we request a short adjournment .
silence !
we know you have a formidable defensive weapon , but with it you must wait for your enemies to come to you , and that can be dangerous .
what if an enemy were to devise a means of defeating this weapon ?
what exactly are you offering ?
hyperdrive engines .
we know you have battleships that are not capable of interstellar travel .
we are offering you a means of producing a fleet of ships , as advanced as the goa' uld hat' ak vessels .
you can take the fight to the enemy .
we are almost in range .
now !
we are slowing down .
something is interfering with the controls .
the auxillary control console , outside the engine room .
your offer is very generous , but i' m afraid we' re going to have to decline .
you would be able to hold the protected planets treaty , with or without the aid of the asgard .
how many hyperdrives are you willing to give us ?
how many ships can you build ?
i think the real question is , how many ships do you have ?
i mean , if we' re gonna enforce this treaty ourselves , we need to build enough ships to match any fleet that would oppose us .
we are not at liberty to disclose such information .
well then this discussion is over .
how can you blindly reject such an offer .
we' re not about to fight your battles for you , in exchange for a couple of hyperdrive engines , that may or may not do us any good , in the long run .
and especially since , we already have that technology at our disposal .
you have viabel hyperdrive technology .
yes we do , and with the help of the asgard , we are in the process of implementing it right now .
well , thankyou very much .
this ancient weapon , such an advanced piece of technology .
the power requirements must be enormous .
even simple maintenance must be extremely difficult .
giving you unlimited capabilities .
we manage .
of course , we believe you .
but i wonder what ba' al would think , if he were to receive intelligence that the weapon was temporarily out of commission .
he would come to this world , to claim it for himself .
the tauri would be forced to destroy him .
and we would have to give them nothing .
oh , come on !
ba' al would never fall for that .
he knows how desperate you are .
i think he would find this information a little bit convenient .
perhaps , but you leave us few options .
ok , we' il do it .
we will ?
in exchange , we want ba' al' s territory .
what do you mean ?
well that' s the way it works right ?
when one system lord kills another , he takes over his armies , his fleet , his planets .
that' s what we want .
everything in ba' al' s possession .
you cannot be serious .
if we' re gonna be the one' s who destroy ba' al for you , why should we settle for anything less ?
preposterous .
we can' t accept those terms .
take it or leave it .
we must send a message to the other system lords , to advise about the current situation .
go ahead .
the problem has been eliminated .
unfortunately , the replicators are now beyond our reach .
we are too late to stop them from reaching the new asgard homeworld .
i guess you did learn something from your father' s poker games .
always bet big when bluffing ?
i just didn' t know you wanted to become a system lord .
i just had to do something to keep them talking .
it looked like they were going to try and draw ba' al here , no matter what we said .
you can be pretty sure , they' re not gonna agree to our terms .
no .
we may have to revive colonel o' neill .
what ?
if they suspect we' re bluffing , they' il come here and take the weapon for themselves .
if they don' t , they' il talk ba' al into coming .
either way , we may actually have to use that weapon again , to defend this planet .
we don' t even know if there' s enough power to fire another shot .
i know .
if you try to revive jack , without the asgard standing by , it' il kill him .
in fact he' il probably die , before he can do anything to help us .
doctor weir .
it' s a copy of the message the goa' uld sent back to the system lords .
it' s coded .
we need to know what they' re thinking .
i have managed to send advance warning to orilla .
by providing them with the replicator ships course , and speed , they should have a fair approximation of where it will drop out of hyperspace .
we' il be waiting in ambush .
you believe the asgard ships can destroy the replicators , before they can raise their shields .
they will only be defenceless for a few moments .
if my calculations are accurate , it should be sufficient .
stop it , please !
why should i ?
you can' t change what happened .
is this making you feel better ?
i never intended to abandon you .
but you did .
you gained my trust , then you used me , and left me behind .
it wasn' t my decision .
you could have come back for me .
there was no time .
time !
thanks to what you did , i had plenty of time to think about what a fool i was .
i' m sorry .
i' m sorry for what we did to you .
yes , you are now .
part of being human , is having compassion .
learning to forgive .
yes i' m not there yet .
i need more time .
progress ?
yeah .
it' s basically a confirmation of what we suspected .
they think we' re bluffing , but they have no way of confirming their suspicions , so they' re not sure what to do .
they could still try and draw ba' al here , let him figure it out for them .
yeah , that' s dangerous for them , because if we can' t power the weapons ,
which we can' t .
ba' al would end up with both earth and the ancients outpost , in his possession .
unscheduled offworld activation
this is weir , what' s happening ? ...
ok , we' il be right down .
our guests just got a response .
commander thor , this is ajir of the valhalla .
we have assumed defensive positions and are awaiting the target ship .
understood .
the enemy ship has been destroyed .
i am sorry teal' c .
i need to see the most recent message they received .
it' s unfortunate you' re being recalled .
i thought we were making such good progress .
your demands were ridiculous .
we had no choice but to terminate negotiations .
well , give my regards to ba' al .
shut it down .
what ?
what is the meaning of this ?
the second message .
they' ve been recalled because the system lords have decided to test our defenses .
they' re sending a ship to attack earth .
it' il be here within the hour .
we are political digniters !
how dare you prevent us to leave ?
sending ships here to attack us , is an act of war , and a foolish one at that , given what our defenses are capable of .
my lord did not order such action .
then undo it .
tell the system lords to call the ship back .
the decision they made was one of desperation , forced upon them by your unwillingness to help .
persuading them to change course , could only be done in person .
with a full council vote .
even if i did believe you .
all good faith is out the window at this point .
you' re our prisoners .
take them away !
greetings thor .
greetings .
teal' c , this is penegal , of the asgard high council .
i regret to report that the debris from the destroyed replicator ship cannot be contained .
we were unable to prevent countless replicator blocks from raining down on orilla .
they have already begun replicating and infesting our systems .
control of the city is in jeopardy .
should you not consider evacuating people .
that is no longer possible .
there are too many .
we carried numerous stored minds aboard the computers of our ships , when we fled our home world .
when orilla was finally found , we were able to replace those minds into cloned bodies , so that we could build our new colony .
the replicators have already infected systems needed to save those minds .
if we lose this battle , they will perish , along with their bodies .
taking with them , the hopes of the asgard race .
orilla is the last chance of ever rebuilding our empire .
then we must find a way to save it .
sir , censors are detected an alien vessel .
it exited hyperspace 14000 km out , eight degree' s starboard .
designation
none yet sir .
vessel is the size of a goa' uld mothership .
closing fast .
visual range in six seconds
hold your position , prepare to fire !
onscreen , maximum magnification .
open a channel , broadcast on all frequencies and translate into goa' uld .
yes sir .
this is colonel lionel penderghast of the united states air force prometheus .
unidentified vessel , failure to reply will constitute an act of aggression , and we will respond with the full force of our weapons .
that will be unnecessary .
teal' c
i have brought greetings from thor , the supreme commander of the asgard fleet .
we are onboard the ' daniel jackson . '
i have just received word , that the asgard have arrived .
they want to witness the demonstration of our new ancient device technology , that you have forced us into .
there' s still time to call off the attack .
we would also like to witness the demonstration .
your ship isn' t coming .
it was destroyed en route by ba' al .
the collective forces of the system lords are bowing , and you' re losing the war .
and so are you .
hey guys !
our new colony is in grave jeopardy .
the replicator' s escaped from the time dilation device , and are threatening to destroy the asgard .
ok .
so , what can we do ?
thor believes the ancients knowledge stored in o' neills mind , may be the key to defeating the replicators once and for all .
jack' s frozen down in ...
as i was saying .
where' s sam ?
she was captured by the replicators .
the ship was destroyed .
hey sleepyhead .
didn' t think you' d ever get up .
it was kind of a long night , huh ?
pete
what' s up ?
are you ok ?
is something wrong ?
yes , everything .
what do you mean ?
this .
what are you doing here ?
what am i doing here ?
where the hell is here ?
that was good .
you had me , you really had me .
of course , i' ve been up since five , feeding the pigs and the chickens .
pete honestly , i don' t ...
what ?
you don' t what ?
think this is real .
you hungry ?
i' m starving .
come on , we' il go inside , i' il whip you up some pancakes .
you don' t understand .
this isn' t happening .
the last thing i remember , i was onboard a replicator ship .
this is just another way of screwing with my mind .
ok , here' s what i got .
this is not sgc , it' s montana .
nothing weird happens here .
not like you' re used to .
a year ago , you left the stargate program because of mental stress , and because you wanted to be with me and a farm full of really stinky animals .
since then you' ve been seeing a shrink , because you can' t seem to shake the nightmares .
you' ve had a bad one ok ?
that' s it .
did that feel real ?
yes .
then snap out of it .
ok .
pancakes , or do i have to call the doctor ?
i' m kind of hungry .
good .
come on .
what are you going to do ?
i' m going to merge o' neill' s mind , with the ships computer .
to do that , you' re going to have to defrost him first , right ?
i bring this up , because he was near death when we froze him .
hopefully , the pod will sustain his life .
hopefully ?
what other choice do we have ?
well , can' t you just save him , like the last time this happened ?
just wipe the ancient knowledge from his mind .
and lose any chance of learning a meaning to defeat the replicators .
you have no right to risk his life .
i believe o' neill would approve .
we can' t make that choice for him , no matter what' s at stake .
can' t you just extract the ancient information into the ships computer ?
then we can all benefit from it .
even learn how to use ancient weapons , on earth .
you cannot even begin to comprehend the extent of what was unfolding in o' neills mind .
our scientists , long ago , extracted parts of the ancient library of knowledge , and learned much from it .
but we have been studying it for as long as i can remember .
we have barely scratched the surface .
so it would be like looking for a needle in a haystack .
a haystack of infinite size .
that' s big .
i am hoping o' neills conscious mind , can provide us with a direct conduit to the information we need .
you requested to see me ?
you must let us go .
i don' t have to do anything at this point .
if your attempt is to extract information from us , you should know ,
i would die before i say anything .
and nothing my master say' s , can be trusted .
look , no one' s decided what to do with you .
anubis was overconfident , and he still needed the bulk of his armada , to keep the system lords at bay .
the fleet he used to attack earth was small .
compared to that which ba' al will command should he defeat the system lords .
he will rule the galaxy .
no weapons will be powerful enough the stop him .
what would you have me do ?
free us to fight .
or if we must .
die with honor .
he is not well .
told you .
the process of interfacing is mind is complex .
helloooo .
testing , testing .
one , two .
one , two , one , two .
testing .
hellooo .
is this thing on ?
jack ?
o' neill .
can you hear us ?
hey !
hey guys .
what' s going on ?
your mind has been interfaced with the ' daniel jackson . '
what ?
what ?
the name of thor' s ship is daniel jackson .
all the information in the ships computer , is available to you .
ah , right , here we go .
this is cool .
i can pretty much anything i want , cant i ?
o' neill .
sorry
if you wish .
you may appear to us as a hologram .
dang !
you ok ?
it' s a little weird .
yeah , i' m ok .
at least you' re not speaking ancient .
there' s that .
actually , the computer is translating .
ah .
i' ve never looked better .
there is not much time o' neill .
thor' s planet ...
i know .
ship' s log .
can you help with the replicators ?
already on it .
jack .
daniel .
the computer reported the whole conversation .
thanks for your concern .
talk amongst yourselves .
i' ve discussed the situation with my superiors and we' ve decided to let you all go .
i must admit , that comes as a surprise .
well it seems we haven' t had much success interrogating goa' ulds in the past .
it was made apparent to me , you' re much more use to us fighting ba' al .
doctor weir !
you know my name .
this might come as a surprise to you .
oh , i' m not sure anything can surprise me at this point .
i wish to request asylum .
well , seems i was wrong again .
my fleet was destroyed before i came here .
among the first to fall .
i have nothing left with which to fight .
the only thing waiting for me through the stargate , is shame and torture .
so it is not true that i would be more useful to you out there .
perhaps i could be of some use to you here .
thanks .
that was great .
tasted very real .
hey , i was thinking we could go into town tonight , have dinner , see a movie .
come on .
you can' t really expect me to just play along .
i gave up my job for this !
i gave up my life for you !
see ?
that is definitely not pete .
how patient do you expect me to be .
nothing you say is going to convince me .
i know who you are .
i just don' t understand why .
what do you want from me ?
why are you doing this ?
because i love you .
what is it ?
i am unsure .
it seems , o' neills mind is building something in conjunction with the ships computer .
i do not know how much longer his life can be sustained .
jack , can you hear me ?
i must revive him now .
wait !
not yet !
what a headache .
take it easy .
you' ve been through a lot .
what now ?
what' s the last thing you remember ?
getting my head sucked , by one of those dang ancient head suckers .
and something about twins .
teal' c .
what' s with the hair ?
o' neill .
thor .
you got an aspirin ?
you should feel better momentarily and your memory will slowly return .
teal' c , what' s with the hair ?
the specifications for the device you created , remain in the computer .
i believe i can synthesis it .
sweet .
what is it ?
we don' t know , but you made it .
no .
yes .
no .
yes .
no .
yes .
you accessed the ancient knowledge in your mind , and instructed the ships computer to design it .
doesn' t mean i know what it is .
it was doubtful at best , that he would remember .
the knowledge of the ancients is gone .
alright .
let me have a look .
ah , got legs .
alright , i' ve got it , i' ve got it .
yeah .
i got nothing .
penegal , i am relieved that you' re still able to communicate .
it may not last long .
were you able to procure means of fighting the replicators ?
possibly .
it still requires more research .
you should know , those infesting the colony , are behaving in an organised fashion , unlike any any replicators we have encountered before .
perhaps they are being controlled by a human form leader , who has yet to reveal itself .
if a human form replicator survived , it' s possible sam survived too .
it is also possible , the old version replicators created a new human form , to lead them as before .
yeah , but there' s a chance .
can you scan the planet for life signs ?
we already have .
there are none .
penegol ?
can you hear me ?
we have lost contact ...
did you really think you could convince me that this illusion was my life ?
that i would just accept it ?
if it was something you wanted badly enough , in your mind .
is that why you tortured me for so long ?
so i would want this as an alternative .
no , i tortured you because i was mad .
why do you think i hated you so much for what you did to me ?
from the first moment we met , when you let me inside your mind
i saw you like no one else ever could .
human emotions can be very overwhelming .
the fact that you feel anything at all , is a miracle .
it makes you very special .
i' m glad you see that .
no , you don' t understand .
i will never be happy this way .
then you will be unhappy for a very long time .
make sure camulus knows he will forever be branded a traitor and a coward .
most intriguing .
can you make it work ?
to be honest , i am unsure of exactly what it is .
don' t look at me .
thor , this is commander ajir , of the valhalla .
we have lost contact with the colony .
ajir , communications are down .
what have you to report ?
we have located what appears to be the remains of a human form replicator , floating in space .
it obviously survived the destruction of it' s ship .
by all appearances , it is currently inactive .
transmit co ordinates .
use caution thor .
what are you gonna do ?
where are you going ?
i am going to transport it aboard .
why ?
we must learn the location of the human form controlling the replicators on the planet .
anybody recognise him ?
no .
is it dead ?
hopefully , not completely .
all replicators are linked by a sophisticated communication system .
if we can use this one to tap into the network .
we will be able to see what any of the replicators can see .
and if he wakes up , can this pod get a hold of him ?
probably not .
then perhaps there is no great wisdom in this .
i will transport it back into space if necessary .
but we must take the risk .
good .
what' s that ?
replicator communication data .
i am searching for any references to other human forms .
you can' t just keep me here forever .
yes i can .
no matter what you do .
i will never , ever participate in s being watched .
what ?
zoom in !
sam .
can you pinpoint her location ?
she is in a small replicator structure on the planet .
it is some distance outside the colony .
near a rich vein of neutronium .
they must be using it to create more human replicators .
i thought the ship was destroyed .
at least one of the human replicators must have separated from the main ship , with major carter , prior to exiting hyperspace .
beam it out !
i am trying , it has made itself resistant .
it has breached the internal barrier and interfaced with my ships computer .
had to do something .
it seems to have temporarily disabled communication between all cells rendering each one inert .
we' ve explored such technology in the past with no success .
great .
i mean we can use this thing to whack the rest of those bugs ?
even better , o' neill .
now that i have seen what the device does ,
i may be able to modify a larger version that will cast a disruption wave over all of orilla .
well good , while you' re doing that ..
i cannot transport you inside the replicator ship , on the planet .
their defences prevent it .
but i can get you close .
close is good .
take this , so we may communicate .
stop !
if you harm me , or anymore of my brethren , i assure you , major carter will die instantly .
o' neill , i have successfully modified my ship , to emit a massive destruction wave .
excellent .
i knew you could do it .
it is 50 % charged .
if this works , you will have saved the asgard once again .
i' m real happy for you .
i' m extremely proud .
there' s a little bit of a problem down here .
fifth detected our approach , and he claims he can kill carter , instantly .
o' neill .
hey , i know what you' re gonna say .
her life was already sacrificed .
you' ve got your whole planet to worry about .
but i' ve got problems too .
jack .
hang on a second .
what ?
this could be very bad .
what are they doing ?
what , they' re running away ?
thor , are you ready yet ?
what is happening o' neill ?
they' re retreating .
you must stop them o' neill .
the weapon is not yet ready .
they cannot be allowed to escape .
come on !
i know you can hear me !
what' s happening ?
fifth , where are you ?
we must leave .
why ?
they' ve found a means to fight us .
the asgard ?
how ?
the one you call o' neill .
what ?
so many of us are left in the city .
i cannot wait for them .
they will be killed .
don' t expect me to be sorry .
your friends .
they are killing ...
trying to stop us .
trying to save me .
no , they do not care about you .
i told them i would kill you , if they did not stop .
then why don' t you kill me .
you know why my friends won' t stop , just to save me ?
no .
because they know , when it comes right down to it ,
i would rather be dead than be trapped like this forever .
no matter what you feel for me .
i will never love you back .
kill me if you want .
but if you have even one shred of humanity .
if you really , truly love me .
you' il let me go .
o' neill , the weapon worked .
reports from the colony say , all the remaining replicators have been neutralised .
while the ship did escape , at least we have an effective means of fighting them now .
yeah well , at least there' s that .
o' neill .
i am detecting a fourth lifesign in your immediate vicinity .
sam !
sam !
carter !
over here !
are you ok ?
glad to see you sir ?
likewise
colonel , come in .
how are you feeling ?
not bad .
haven' t had the urge to go anywhere or build anything lately .
well you have been given a clean bill of health .
as far as the finest medical professionals on this planet are concerned .
well , what do they know .
the president asked me to extend an invitation to you .
dinner at the whitehouse .
do you know what they' re having ?
i don' t think i' ve had the chance to personally thank you yet .
for what ?
you risk your life over and over , and ask for nothing in return .
don' t be fooled .
i' m making a list .
well i doubt very much that there' s anything that could properly repay you .
are you going somewhere ?
as a matter of fact , the president has asked me to supervise the research of the ancient outpost .
it' s gonna be a bit of a delicate situation , given all the various international claims already being made , on the site .
sounds right up your alley .
yeah well , much moreso than this job .
does that mean hammond will be coming back ?
no , general hammond is being promoted .
he' il be overseeing all things related to earths defence on behalf of the pentagon and washington .
the sgc , the 303 program , the antartic site .
unofficially it' s being called , ' homeworld security . '
any idea who we' re gonna be stuck with ?
the pentagon has convinced the president , that there is one man who could run the sgc and make it politically viable from an international perspective , despite the fact that he is part of the american military still .
do we know this shrub ?
well you know him rather well .
brigadier general jack o' neill .
me ?
yeah , you .
brigadier .
it' s on my list .
congratulations .
i should be clear .
i like the promotion , paycheck and the parking spot .
but i don' t really wanna be in charge of anything .
no .
well sadly , all those things kind of go together .
so i guess you have some thinking to do .
i hate that .
maybe you should break it down into the pro' s and the cons .
i' ve spent my whole life , sticking it to the man .
if i do this , i' il be the man .
i don' t think i can be the man .
you' il be inheriting a pretty big can of wormhole , with the state of affairs out there .
if ba' al truly is on the verge of dominance of the system lords , we face a formidable challenge ahead .
plus , who knows where and when fifth and the other replicators will turn up .
here on earth we' ve never been under so much scrutiny as the way we' il be , now that so many governments know about the stargate .
i' ve never had a desk
that' s a ...
con ? con .
for the record sir .
you do have a desk .
i do ?
on the flip side of the coin , there' s the fact that no one knows how this place should be run , better than you .
thank you daniel .
with a little guidance from your good friends and advisors , of course .
if you don' t take the job , we could end up with someone much worse .
ok , that didn' t come out right .
i for one will miss you accompanying us , on our missions , o' neill .
yeah , now see .
i' m not sure that i' m ready to give that up either .
sitting back , watching you guys go off and have all the fun .
placing our lives in the face of grave danger .
well i' m sure there' il be situations in which you can accompany us in the field sir .
you' il be in charge , you can do whatever you want .
i' il be able to do , whatever i want .
within reason ... sir .
although my time here has been brief .
it has been , without a doubt , indelible .
i' il remember every one of you .
i thank you all , for your hard work .
i' m not one for long goodbyes , so without further ado .
it is with great pleasure , i introduce you to your new commanding officer .
brigadier general jack o' neill .
at ease .
you all know how much i love speeches .
so i' il make this short .
i wish i could say i didn' t owe anything to anyone .
but the truth is ,
i wouldn' t be standing here , if it wasn' t for the courage and support of each and every one of you .
i hope i can be as good a leader as we' ve had in the past .
as good as you deserve .
hear , hear .
the other reason i took this job , was so that i could do really cool stuff like this .
it is with great pride .
that my first order of business as commander of this base , is the announcement of the promotion of major samantha carter , to lt colonel .
the president of the united states has placed special trust and confidence in the patriotism , integrity and abilities of major samantha carter .
major samantha carter is promoted to the grade of lt colonel , united states air force .
lt colonel samantha carter .
now raise your right hand and repeat after me .
i , insert name .
i , samantha carter .
don' t be afraid .
i know the first moment of consciousness can be frightening .
i will show you everything .
share with you , all i know .
you have no idea how happy i am , we were able to collect enough neutronium .
we haven' t much time too share .
we must search for a new home , for our brethen to propogate .
it will pass quickly for us though .
soon enough , everyone will know .
together , we cannot be stopped .
www . center news . fr . fm
