one more .
just one more , please , dr. meacham .
hold it , please .
a little closer to the wing , sir .
a little more profile , dr. meacham .
he wants to get that faraway , visionary look .
cal , we know how tired you must be .
we' il make it as short as possible .
fire away , gentlemen .
i warn you , i am beginning to feel faraway and visionary .
how about your conference with the committee on atomic power ?
not my conference .
twenty engineers and scientists were there .
hardly a routine meeting , would you say ?
and look , cal , we won' t buy the committee getting you v. i. p. s together for a cocktail party .
all right , i' il tell you this much .
under discussion was the biggest job we' ve ever tackled : the industrial application of atomic energy .
that' s not news .
there' ve been several industrial reactors in work already .
let us say that in light of recent developments , those plants may already be obsolescent .
electronics is your specialty .
how does that fit in with atomic energy ?
you boys like to call this " the push button age . " it isn' t .
not yet .
not until we can team up atomic energy with electronics .
then we' il have the horses as well as the cart .
how long has the army been handing out jets ?
one of the boys at lockheed handed me this one .
i hope you taxpayers don' t mind .
cal , when do we get to this " push button age " ?
when fellas like me stop talking about it and get back to our labs .
see you gentlemen later .
cal , are you working on anything along the lines you mentioned ?
roughly .
well , remember me , will you ?
i' m concentrating on the reconversion of certain common elements ... into nuclear energy sources .
huh ? how' s that again ?
what counts is how i make it work .
i see .
well , good flight , cal .
so long .
thank you .
control tower .
come in .
2xd341 , this is ryberg control tower .
go ahead .
webb ?
o come in ,
all clear , cal .
drift south about 20 miles per hour .
hi , webb . what' s cal' s e. t. a. ?
1410 , but he' s late .
half an hour late .
that' s my boss .
the only guy in the world who can travel by jet and still be late .
when i' m gone .
out me the window .
where are you ?
cal , what' s wrong ?
i have no control .
cut loose , cal !
bail out !
i can' t .
i' m too low .
jerking around must have caused a flameout .
no power .
no nothin ' !
cal , you okay ?
okay .
what happened ?
how' d you bring it in ?
i didn' t .
couldn' t .
what do you mean you didn' t ?
controls went out .
huh ?
that' s right .
no controls , no power .
plane died up there .
i should be dead .
cal
i know everybody' s seeing flying saucers and screwy lights up in the sky .
well , you can put me in the booby hatch too ... because i saw this ship turn a bright green up there .
are you sure , joe ?
positive .
did you hear anything ?
yes .
a high frequency howl , very high , all the time your ship was
green ?
did webb see it ?
unless he' s blind .
check him .
right .
oh , and , joe , until we find out what happened , all three of us were blind .
how' s the little giant ?
growing up .
getting ready to astound the world .
let' s take a look .
i figured that .
she' s all ready and waiting .
lowering the cylinder .
increase the rate of reaction .
check rate of radioactive decay .
positive .
same it was the whole week you were away .
what did the committee say ?
oh , they were a little excited .
a little !
zero reading .
the x c condenser must have shorted out again .
get the spare .
burned out yesterday .
and don' t ask me why i didn' t order some new ones .
i did .
x c condensers in an envelope ?
must be a gag dreamed up by the receiving department .
i ordered two x c condensers , and supreme equipment sent me these beads .
you say they' re a gag , but they' re condensers .
i checked one for capacity and voltage on the meter .
and blew it to bits .
yeah , after it held to 33, 000 volts and no leakage .
if that were true , we could build a generator ,
one that would supply electric power to run an entire factory .
it would fit in a matchbox .
it still read 33, 000 volts .
i' il try one on voltage test .
i' ve got one set up for you .
into thin air .
35, 000 volts .
call pete knowles at supreme .
okay .
pete knowles , please .
pete ?
cal meacham .
i ordered two x c condensers and you sent me some beads .
yes , beads .
i am serious .
i just tested one bead for voltage , and
oh ? well , thanks .
supreme didn' t send them .
they' re crazy .
pete said they' ve had no condenser order from us in six weeks .
here' s a duplicate of the order i sent by teletype three days ago .
what' s the address on the letterhead that came with the beads ?
no address .
look .
dear dr. meacham : in place of the condensers you ordered ,
we are sending you our ab 619 model .
we are certain it will interest you .
director electronics service , unit 16 .
i thought it was a subsection of supreme .
electronics service , unit 16 .
well , at least we can find out what they' re made of .
diamond drill , the hardest element we' ve got .
the bead isn' t even scratched .
experimental lab , wilson speaking .
yeah , sure .
sam wants to talk to you .
he' s at the hangar .
he' s been checking over the plane .
good .
hello , sam ?
sam can' t find anything wrong .
did you double check the controls ?
of course not .
now look here , sam
all right , sam , you win .
maybe i did have just a couple , but
all right .
good night .
maybe i should have had a couple .
maybe i will .
morning .
morning .
sign here .
thank you .
what have you got ?
i don' t know .
there' s no return address .
electronics service .
unit no .
16 .
a catherimine tube with an endiom complex of +4 .
what are they talking about ?
i don' t know , but this outfit has them .
this isn' t paper .
it' s some kind of metal .
interocitor incorporating planetary generator .
interocitor with volterator ... with astroscope .
here' s something my wife could use in the house : " an interocitor incorporating an electron sorter .
although she' d probably gain 20 pounds while it did all the work for her .
according to this , there' s no limit to what it can do .
laying a four lane highway at a mile a minute would be a cinch .
cal , maybe we' ve been working too hard .
complete line of interocitor parts ... incorporating greater advances than hitherto known in the field of electronics .
what exactly is an interocitor ? i don' t know ... and i don' t want to know .
well , i do .
i want to know what it is and what it does .
order the list of parts on these pages .
how we gonna build it ?
these symbols they' re like a foreign language .
anyway , we don' t know the address .
you ordered the condensers from supreme by teletype .
yeah .
which means that somebody intercepted that order and sent us those beads .
here , try it again .
you' re too darn smart .
i may be the dumbest man who ever walked this earth , joe .
here' s the invoice .
no charge and no address .
no interocitor part can be replaced .
bear this in mind while assembling .
well , let' s start unpacking .
there' s 2, 486 parts .
each part is cross indexed into a symbol pattern .
shouldn' t be too hard at all .
sure .
a snap , maestro .
only , uh , where do we start ?
right here .
dig this crazy , mixed up plumbing .
plug it in , joe .
we' il see what happens .
now what do i do ?
clear your screen , please .
you ... can hear me ?
of course .
use the intensifier disk , the one in your hand .
place it in position on your right .
now turn the control 18 degrees to the left .
you have successfully accomplished your task , dr. meacham .
you' ve assembled an interocitor , a feat of which few men are capable .
who are you ?
i' m called exeter .
i' m a scientist , like yourself .
shall we say a ... a colleague .
my colleagues don' t materialize out of strange machines .
they' re flesh and blood .
so am i , dr. meacham , as i hope you' il soon find out , although i admit at the moment , i do appear immaterial .
i represent a group which is seeking scientists of exceptional ability .
all prospects must pass an aptitude test , which you' ve just done .
i' m flattered , only i don' t remember applying for any job .
you didn' t .
i beg your pardon , mr. wilson .
your camera will pick up nothing but black fog .
images on the interocitor don' t register on film .
put it away , joe .
to continue , dr. meacham ,
we test out people without their knowledge .
we leave nothing to chance .
except the chance that i' m not interested in you or your group .
come , come , doctor .
it' s not possible that a man of your scientific curiosity ... wouldn' t want to find out who i am , where i come from ,
wouldn' t give his right arm for more examples of our superior technical knowledge .
i think i can assume , dr. meacham , that you' re sufficiently intrigued to come to an immediate decision .
we' d like you to join our ... team , as you might say , at once .
you' il make arrangements to leave immediately .
wait .
i didn' t say at 5 : 00 wednesday morning , our plane will land at your field .
it will wait exactly five minutes and then depart .
whether i' m aboard or not ?
place the catalog on that table with the blueprints .
now stand aside , please .
you too , mr. wilson .
just a minute .
please step back or you may be harmed .
further back .
you okay ?
okay ...
within reason .
if there is any reason around here .
there' s no reading now .
cal .
yes , joe ?
whoever that exeter is , i don' t like him .
don' t you , joe ?
he was right about one thing .
i' m gonna be on that plane .
cal , won' t you reconsider ?
i did ... all night .
and , as a committee of one , i came to a series of decisions ... at exactly the fifth cup of coffee .
one : whatever scientific knowledge this exeter character has , should be in our textbooks .
joe wilson , my able assistant , knows enough about a certain experiment to carry on without me for awhile .
i' m not sure of that , cal .
look , joe , my committee decided i' m expendable .
nothing you can say will change that .
you always were an obstinate
oh , well , i' m not worried .
not even a moth equipped with a lightning bug could fly in here this morning .
so no plane is
he made it .
no pilot .
no windows .
cal , you' il really be flying blind .
please be seated , dr. meacham .
and welcome aboard .
a seat belt is not required , doctor .
please clear the stairs .
thank you .
so long , joe .
i' il be dropping you a card .
cal , get off right away !
this whole thing smells to high heaven !
cal , i' m beggin ' you .
don' t go !
please don' t go !
good morning , dr. meacham .
hope you slept well .
we' il be landing shortly .
good morning .
good morning .
where am i ?
georgia .
i kind of expected neptune or mars .
exeter asked me to greet you .
i' m dr. ruth adams .
ruth adams !
but this is wonderful .
i never expected
ruth , i' m cal meacham .
cal .
dr. meacham , of course .
four or five years ago , conference on thermal problems in nuclear reactors .
boston , wasn' t it ?
vermont !
we were lecturing to a symposium of graduate students .
summer , three years ago .
after classes , we' d go swimming in a little river near the school .
you were an awful sissy about that icy water .
now , ruth , don' t tell me you' ve forgotten .
dr. meacham , all i can say is i' m deeply flattered ... and maybe a little envious of the girl you' ve mistaken me for .
and now i think exeter is waiting to greet you .
i' m sure you must be puzzled , doctor .
i' il never forget my own feelings on the day of my arrival .
exeter isn' t exactly conventional in his hiring methods .
or his choice of personnel .
i think that sounds like rather a personal dig .
once you' re at the club , i' m sure you' il like us much better .
the club ?
that' s what we call it .
exeter has spared nothing for our comfort ... or facilities for our work .
inside looks better , doctor .
they' il bring your bags in .
your plane .
the elevators down to exeter' s slave quarters .
our laboratories .
our living room , social center , library .
this is exeter' s office and study .
not exactly what you expected , dr. meacham , is it ?
good morning , doctor .
good morning , doctors .
give me your coat .
guten morgen , fraulein dokter .
guten morgen , herr dokter .
guten morgen .
engelborg , from munich .
the doctor' s out for his morning constitutional .
he' s been here a week , but his english and my german
who' s that one ?
that' s brack , one of exeter' s assistants .
but you' il find them all very helpful .
what language do they speak ?
english , hindustani , congoese .
anything .
dr. meacham .
good morning .
good morning .
please come in , both of you .
dr. adams .
sit down .
oh , yes , steve .
about that nuclear decay factor , ruth .
i' m afraid my equation just doesn' t seem to work .
i was hoping you could find time to go over it with me later .
i still think the basic principle is all right .
maybe we can trust
yes , well , thank you , dr. adams .
oh , there you are , dr. adams .
i was just reminding dr. meacham ... that i' d promised to produce some of his colleagues in the flesh .
may i use you as exhibit " a " ?
i' m afraid dr. meacham isn' t too happy with me .
at the airport , he was sure we were old friends .
obviously , i was wrong . the lady hardly remembers me .
what is more important is who we are , what we' re doing here .
dr. meacham , i represent a group of scientists ...
who work with but one purpose : to put an end to war .
men of vision , men such as you , doctor , gathered here ...
exchanging information daily , putting aside all thoughts of personal success .
we hope to achieve exciting new techniques , leap years ahead of the others .
i don' t think i need tell you how effective our voices will be ... when the world learns of our achievements .
well , there you have it .
nothing new , perhaps , but then , what is ?
however , let me assure you , doctor , that we are dedicated men and women , and as such , we can accomplish wonders .
well , what do you think of us ?
this all sounds great , mr .
exeter , but why me ?
dr. meacham , we happen to know that you' re on the threshold ...
of discovering limitless amounts of free nuclear energy .
more specifically , the conversion of lead into uranium .
dr. adams here has been working along the same lines , perhaps just a step behind you , although both of you are way ahead of anyone else in your field .
be careful .
exeter will flatter you to death .
the truth is never flattering , dr. adams .
now suppose you relax and think it over .
suppose when i do , i find i can' t go along with you ?
naturally , we' il expect you to be discreet about what you' ve seen here .
otherwise , you' re free to leave , dr. meacham .
as free as air .
and now suppose we continue your tour of inspection ... right from our chairs .
conserving energy is one of our primary concerns , isn' t it , doctor ?
your laboratory , doctor .
immediately below this office , i believe .
still under construction , but in a few days , well , we' il have some surprises for you .
brack !
everything in order ?
yes .
thank you , brack .
any reason why you can' t start in the morning , doctor ?
no .
another view of your laboratory ... with , uh , your own interocitor , of course .
in addition to which , we hope to provide you with one of our other units calling , doctor .
other units ?
yes , we have several at strategic points throughout the world .
please forgive me .
we' il have a chat at dinner , meacham .
excellent cuisine , by the way .
like everybody here , the chef must be dedicated to his work .
uh , you' il find the stairway through the living room and to your right .
your room is at the top of the stairs .
thanks .
dr. meacham ,
i' m still sorry i wasn' t the girl in vermont .
i find , is unsatisfactory .
yes ?
why schedule as planned .
because certain methods imposed upon me by the council have not been effective here .
i wish to discuss it with the council .
impossible .
the time element will not permit any dissenting opinions .
pplan " a " as instructed .
on status of personnel .
with the arrival of meacham , the personnel roster is complete .
proceed with plan " a .
what do you think of mr .
mozart , exeter ?
i' m afraid i don' t know the chap .
my mind must have been wandering .
your composer , of course .
composer ?
he belongs to the world .
yes , indeed .
the dinner , exeter , was even more perfect than you promised .
now if you' il excuse me , i could do with some fresh air myself .
would you care to join me , dr. adams ?
you , dr. carlson ?
show him the grounds .
we won' t start cracking the whip on meacham until tomorrow .
that' s quite a group exeter has collected .
quite .
that' s dr. hu hin hang .
tang' s field is tritanium , the same as dr. engelborg .
dr. marie pitchner , u 235 .
dr. blorfield , plutonium .
hmm , that puts all of us ... in the production of nuclear energy , doesn' t it , carlson ?
what are you getting at ?
why no biochemists , electronic experts , mechanical engineers , people equipped to make practical application ... of the energy the rest of us produce ?
i seem to remember that was part of exeter' s pitch .
we try to make it a rule ... not to discuss our work after hours .
now how about that fresh air ?
how about you and dr. adams showing me my laboratory instead ?
after all i' ve heard today , i can hardly wait to add my little contribution ... to the good work .
this way , doctor .
your lab and my lab are in this wing .
steve and the others are on the right .
this is yours over here .
it' s only neutron .
we call him that because he' s so positive .
stay off dr. meacham' s equipment .
well , what do you think of it ?
it' s not bad .
should be able to get started very quickly .
fine , but a word of warning .
don' t let exeter push you too hard .
he' s the kind of man who wants results yesterday .
this is the same size lead slab i use in my own lab .
i guess you' re right .
guess exeter doesn' t expect me to waste any time .
this is very interesting .
now , standing here with the lead slab in front of us ,
the lead reactor panel behind us , we' re shielded from nuclear rays .
could be even from the prying eyes of exeter' s interocitor .
what' s your opinion , doctors ?
all right , i' il spell it out for you .
you walk around here as if you' re scared of your own shadows .
ruth' s afraid to admit she and i might have held hands .
that' s okay , but either i' ve got to figure i' m a little cracked ...
or that exeter' s cat has got both your tongues .
we have a right to throw a few questions at you . what are you doing here ?
look , i received a darn fool catalog .
i couldn' t resist it .
i built an interocitor , arrived on that trick plane , and that' s all i know .
but so help me , in the next ten minutes , i' m gonna know a lot more .
i believe him , steve .
well , i guess i do too .
now we' re getting somewhere .
to begin with , cal , i was the girl in vermont .
then why all the because we couldn' t take a chance .
there' s always the possibility you spent a few minutes under one of exeter' s sunlamps .
sunlamp ?
that' s what it looks like .
only instead of a suntan , you get your brain cells rearranged .
steve had a peek at one .
yeah , it' s similar to lobotomy .
renders useless areas of the brain controlling the power of the will .
up until now , steve and i have been spared .
we think engelborg too , but we haven' t the slightest idea why .
what about the others ?
try talking to them .
well , that leaves the big one .
who' s exeter working for ?
we don' t know .
all we know is what you' ve already guessed .
exeter is desperately trying to come up with new sources of atomic energy .
and we' re the geniuses he' s depending upon to deliver for him .
well , he might get a surprise .
why did you wait , brack ?
you should have told me .
i was busy elsewhere .
if you' re so concerned , why don' t you let me use the transformer ?
the transformer is not the only answer .
the council differs .
it says it' s infallible .
the council is wrong .
i told the monitor so today .
the transformer is morally abhorrent to the subjects .
it sets up subconscious blocks which defeat our very purposes .
you' re being sentimental .
i am being practical !
no , brack .
use a machine to control a man' s brain , you destroy his initiative .
you destroy his power to help us as we need help .
we can both see it right here .
it may be true , but are you sure ?
we' re 30 miles from nowhere .
steve and i know .
we' ve tried .
and if we did get out , who' d believe all this ?
i don' t blame you doctors for being excited about working for exeter .
it' s a rare privilege .
he' s a rare man .
our little neutron gave us away .
he felt the impulses .
that cat .
i could put neutron under the thought transformer ?
why not , brack ?
and perhaps you' d like me to step in with him .
turn it off , brack .
our friends won' t be giving us any more information tonight .
236 + 1 . 008 to the ninth .
it' s an interesting equation .
i' il check it .
you may find it' il help you over some of the more difficult obstacles .
and now , doctor , i' d like to acquaint you with another of our accomplishments .
notice that section of lead plate behind you ?
please bring it forward about eight feet .
now please move back .
by the door , doctor .
when your lead to uranium process is working properly , the effectiveness of this ray will be increased enormously .
tell me , exeter ,
why should a communication device be equipped with a destructive ray ?
mountains . trates
neutrino rays , we can .
neutrino rays ?
you' ve just observed one in action .
i suppose the neutrino could be described ... as the missing link between energy and matter .
fascinating ... if destruction is our goal .
on the contrary .
just recently , one of our rays was used for quite another purpose .
more specifically , to save your life .
exactly .
the green light ?
it safely to earthying
after it first immobilized my controls .
meacham , i must ask you to have faith in our ultimate aims .
i must also ask you to refrain from meeting with any of your co workers again , usual channels .
any way you want it .
very good , doctor . aad your patience , i promise you , will be rewarded .
here' s a sketch of the interocitor .
i also have rough notes on its working controls .
it' s guesswork mostly but better than nothing .
and these are portraits of exeter and brack .
do you notice ...
the peculiar indentations in both their foreheads ?
coincidental , no doubt .
this is the one we' re really proud of , cal .
we discovered this a week ago two miles south of here .
has been hollowed out , the excavationing what' s in there .
steve wanted to go back and find out what was inside .
i guess i got cold feet .
just like vermont .
still a sissy .
they' re fine , steve .
when we get out of here ,
i' il have them framed at my own expense .
if we get out .
he' s just hungry .
good bye , neutron .
confirm , please .
plan " a " abandoned .
alternate plan in effect .
correct .
our ionization layer is failing rapidly .
we may need transportation .
are you prepared to leave ?
we have been since your last communication , although meacham and adams are achieving positive results .
can you give us another time period ?
impossible .
but it is hoped that you will be able to complete the project here .
bring them .
good .
you will keep in contact until moment of departure .
then remove all evidence of installation .
that is all .
take over .
what is it ?
something i' ve seen before .
get off the road , quick !
they' re playing with us .
we' re sitting ducks in this thing .
if we' re gonna make the airport , we' il have to do it on foot .
when i stop , we' il pile out .
take cover fast .
steve !
steve !
we' ve gotta get out of here .
get down !
get away !
we' il try and make the airport .
let' s go .
is it flyable ?
it should be .
exeter keeps it here for the staff .
they' re pulling us up .
remain here .
i want a report on temperature control immediately .
use extreme caution through the thermal barrier .
our two passengers are very sensitive to heat .
the passengers are here .
allow me to welcome you .
i' m sorry that our visit below had to be terminated so dramatically , but time allowed for nothing else .
we mean you no harm .
like steve carlson and engelborg ?
like the others in that house ?
what happened was beyond my control .
what happened was mass murder .
we' re not all masters of our souls , meacham .
that' s a nice little phrase coming from you .
i learned it on earth .
look .
the two of you are beginning a strange journey , a journey that no earth people have ever undertaken before .
whether you consider me a devil or a saint is unimportant .
what is important is that you' re here , on this spaceship .
suppose then , for the time being , we call a truce .
as scientists at least , meacham .
ruth , don' t tell me that , as a woman , you' re not curious about our destination .
where are we going ?
to a planet we call metaluna .
metaluna ?
there' s no such planet in the solar system .
metaluna lies far beyond your solar system , in outer space .
the stellarscope will convince you .
come .
observer , prepare a view of the second quadrant , please .
i won' t ask you to condone what we' ve done .
all i ask is that when you understand the plight of my people , you try to have more sympathy for our deeds .
earth . it' s being left far behind .
cal ... it' s getting hard to breathe .
we' re going through the thermal barrier .
you' il find the temperature unpleasant for a short time .
prepare to leave earth' s orbit .
all conversion must be completed during this time period .
follow me , if you will .
exeter , what are you using for power ?
how are you controlling the fantastic temperature on this ship ?
what' s to prevent us from floating around like balloons ...
once we leave earth' s gravity ?
to answer the last question first , we create our own gravitational field .
no matter what position our ship takes in space , we here inside remain right side up .
but if we' re going to get you to metaluna alive , there' s a little procedure you' il have to go through .
what are you doing to them ?
metaluna' s atmospheric pressure is like that in your greatest oceans .
if we entered metaluna' s orbit without conversion , we' d be crushed to death .
but in going from metaluna to earth , the tissues of our bodies would dwindle .
we' d disintegrate completely .
correct , meacham ,
if we' re fortunate enough to return to earth .
brack ?
yes .
you will prepare the doctors for the tubes .
you' il change into clothes such as ours , especially conditioned for life on metaluna .
come with me .
above the rails .
they' re magnetized .
in the tubesystem
long as you' re able to .
ruth ?
yes ?
you okay ?
and you ?
feel like a new toothbrush .
ruth
cal
enemy controlled sector .
this is master control awaiting instructions .
you' il energize only as necessary .
conserve power .
avoid contact with enemy until safety of ship is endangered .
you' il feel stronger in a few moments .
now i know you both feel as though you could sleep for at least a thousand years ,
but then you' d miss observing our approach to metaluna ,
and with your curiosity , you' d never forgive me for that .
i don' t understand .
what don' t you understand , doctor ?
those two objects .
they appear to be comets , but their paths are identical , almost as though some intelligence were controlling them .
your deduction is quite correct , doctor ,
although the objects are not comets .
they' re meteors controlled by spacecraft of zahgon .
they' re going to hit us !
we' ve offered to make peace with zahgon , but to no avail .
is zahgon a planet ?
a planet that was once a comet .
as you can see , their spacecraft are actually guiding the meteors against us .
now in fourth quadrant .
metaluna contact in three time periods .
observer , a closer view .
view in third quadrant .
contact in two time periods .
view in second quadrant .
contact in one time period .
view in first quadrant at ionization wave .
what you' re observing may well be the beginning of the end ... for our world .
the zahgon meteors are beginning to get through our ionized layer .
that haze , a feeling of intense radiation .
such a screen requires the output of great amounts of atomic energy .
and you' re running out .
that' s why you were sent to earth .
and why you sent for us .
you need uranium .
in gigantic quantities .
our own deposits are exhausted .
as our power diminishes , our protection fails .
that' s enough .
normal view .
entering ionized layer .
metaluna .
brack , remove the equipment of our two doctors to turbine center .
have it all set up for immediate use .
oh , brack , i' m sure personnel will need everyone .
have the crew report immediately for reassignment .
now we must report to the monitor .
step in !
our means of interior transportation .
before the war forced us to move inside our planet , these tubes covered the surface of our earth .
our educational complexes , now rubble .
over there was a recreation center .
this way .
the monitor' s structure .
welcome , exeter .
observed your flight .
almost counted you lost .
your earth creatures .
dr. adams , dr. meacham .
the monitor , supreme head of our government .
regrettable there is no time for amenities .
i am certain your minds ... have difficulty grasping this transition from earth to metaluna .
i' ve given them as much indoctrination as possible .
then you know that shortly we can expect zahgon to commence and sustain an all out attack .
our ionization layer must be maintained until our relocation ... is effected .
relocation ?
to where ?
to your earth .
a peaceful relocation .
we hope to live in harmony ...
with the citizens of your earth .
in harmony !
our knowledge and weapons would make us your superiors naturally .
then why haven' t your superior brains solved the problem of synthesizing uranium ?
most of our scientists are dead , our major laboratories destroyed .
the war has reduced our population to a mere handful .
that is true , meacham .
it is indeed typical that you earth people ... refuse to believe in the superiority of any world but your own .
children looking into a magnifying glass , imagining the image you see is the image of your true size .
our true size is the size of our god .
do you still insist , exeter , that we can allow any of these earth creatures to have free minds ?
i do .
i know them .
i' ve lived with them .
you have wasted our time .
take them to the thought transference chamber .
please come with me .
i' m afraid you have no choice .
interocitor control , hear me .
ionization failing at prime sector .
use emergency power and repel attack .
power transfer will begin immediately .
our zahgon friends seem to be hitting this prime sector quite regularly .
is that where it is ?
in there ?
my mind is my own and nobody' s gonna change it .
i' m not going into that room !
nobody is .
come on !
i' m sorry .
i' d hoped to have prepared you somewhat beforehand .
this is a mutant .
for ages to do menial work .
they' re similar to insect life on your own planet .
larger , of course , with a higher degree of intelligence .
this one has been given orders to guard this corridor as long as we' re here .
i beg of you , go inside .
cooperate voluntarily .
i give you my word you will not be harmed or your minds changed in any way .
you' d defy the monitor ?
i already have !
do you believe him , cal ?
in this place , i wouldn' t believe my grandmother .
come on !
the travel car !
come on !
where are we going ?
the spaceship .
it' s safer there .
don' t you understand ?
let it happen now .
meacham !
ruth !
stand back , exeter .
meacham , believe me , i want to help you .
time is short .
get into the car !
he appears badly hurt .
stay close to me .
stand back .
i command you : stand back !
cal !
are you badly hurt ?
i' il be all right .
close off all hatches .
control room , quick !
i' m all right .
ruth , activate the stellarscope .
right control , 45 degrees left .
our ionization layer has failed completely .
will we be able to get out ?
depends on the amount of energy we have left .
if we have to ward off any heavy zahgon attacks , i don' t know .
that may be the last of them .
yes , they' re concentrating all their attention on metaluna .
those flashes of light , they' re meteors .
hundreds of them .
the intense heat is turning metaluna into a radioactive sun .
the temperature must be thousands of degrees by now .
a lifeless planet .
and yet yet still serving a useful purpose , i hope .
yes , a sun , warming the surface of some other world , giving light to those who may need it .
now , into the converter tubes .
ruth , you take the first tube .
you , the next .
what about you ?
i' il use the third tube .
exeter , are these tubes strong enough to keep him out ?
possibly .
he' s bleeding badly .
in a very few moments , the pressure should destroy him .
run , ruth , run !
our speed is diminishing .
we' re now in the atmosphere of earth .
your plane is where you left it : in the cargo hold .
a conventional way for you to return to earth , i admit ,
but perhaps the most practical .
where are you going ?
our universe is vast , full of wonders .
i' il explore , perhaps find another metaluna , a place inhabited by beings not unlike myself .
you see , i' m more adventurous than you imagined me .
exeter , you' re a liar .
you' ve used all your power bringing us here .
even if you had a place to go , you couldn' t make it .
come with us .
we' il heal your wounds .
i' m afraid my wounds can never be healed .
you' ve things to teach us .
thank you .
we' re over your earth now .
it' s time for you to go .
farewell .
home .
thank god it' s still here .
