i think he' s a funny guy .
he' s original , he' s hilarious , he' s a superstar , and i have two tickets for me and my baby to go see him .
gonna be a great show .
as he says , there' s black folks and there' s niggers .
i think he' s a very progressive black man .
i think he' s true with everything he says .
he hits home , i mean , all his jokes are on point and you know exactly what he' s talking about .
dc , are you ready ?
dc , are you ready ?
give it up for my brother , the one , the only ,
chris rockl
thank you !
thank you all for coming out .
yes .
welcome .
sit yo asses down .
sit yo black asses down , man .
thank you all for coming out to my fourth hbo special .
that' s right , baby .
number four !
yeah !
yeah , this is the kill bill one , you know what i' m saying ?
gonna do it right , man .
it' s good to be here in washington , dc .
that' s right .
lovely constitution hall , that' s right , man .
now i haven' t toured in a long time ,
i haven' t done a special for a long time .
i was waiting for special things to happen , and a lot' s happened in my life since the last time i was on the road , man .
i had a little baby girl .
it' s not a big deal .
i mean , even roaches have kids , right ?
but i got a little baby girl .
and it' s amazing when you have a girl you' re a man and you have a girl , it' s eye opening .
cos i realise i' m the man in her life .
and my relationship with my daughter is gonna affect her relationship with men for the rest of her life .
and every man in here has dated a woman with some daddy issues .
that shit ain' t fun , ok ?
she giving you a hard time over some shit her daddy did in 1969 , ok ?
that shit ain' t never fun .
sometimes i' m walking with my daughter , talking to my daughter ,
i' m looking at her in her stroller , and sometimes i pick her up and stare at her and i realise my only job in life ... is to keep her off the pole .
keep my baby off the pole !
they don' t grade fathers but if your daughter' s a stripper , you fucked up .
yeah .
you went mighty wrong there , baby .
you thought you had a household ?
no , you got a ho camp .
i' m not making fun of the strippers cos some of these girls were abused .
some of them just missed a few hugs .
some of them were like , " daddy , can we talk ?
hey , i' m watching the game .
i' il show you !
i' m gonna dance naked to mtley cre records .
i' m gonna change my name to cinder buns
and i' m gonna wear clear heels .
when did clear heels become the new whore uniform ?
when did that happen ?
was there a big old ho convention and all the hoes got together and said ,
we need something new .
something that just says ' nasty ' .
one girl said , " i got it !
clear heels !
ooh , girl , you disgusting .
you all right .
i got nothing against strippers .
somebody' s gotta do it .
somebody has to take on the monumental responsibility that the strippers do .
somebody' s gotta do it , somebody has to entertain the married men of america .
somebody has to do it .
ok ?
your wife , you know , your wife will take care of you but she ain' t gonna entertain you .
give your wife clear heels " what the fuck is this shit ?
get this ho shit out my house .
now wash your hands so you can eat .
i got nothing against the strippers .
but the strip clubs are very addictive .
not to me but to other people .
they are addictive .
every guy in here got a friend that' s addicted to strip clubs .
addicted like heroin , ok ?
addicted .
you know those guys that cannot function in a normal club .
you take ' em to a normal club , they ask one girl to dance
would you like to dance ?
maybe later .
yo , man , let' s go to the titty bar .
man , these bitches is stuck up , man .
i gave this bitch a dollar , she didn' t do nothing .
no .
we all got those friends that' s addicted to strip clubs .
you know those guys that go to the strip club in the daytime ?
if you at a strip club and the sun is out , you got some problems .
you know those guys that eat at the strip club ?
eat at the buffet .
how the fuck could you eat at a nasty ass strip club ?
what ?
are you that hungry ?
motherfucker , go to mickey d' s or some shit .
rwandan refugees won' t eat that shit .
at a damn strip club .
titties and tater tots don' t mix .
i got nothing against strippers .
what i got a problem with is the stripper myth .
you know the stripper myth .
there' s a stripper myth that' s being perpetuated throughout society .
the stripper myth is , " i' m stripping to pay my tuition .
no , you' re not .
there' s no strippers at college .
there' s no clear heels in biology .
shit , man .
i didn' t know they had a college that only took one dollar bills .
and if they got so many strippers at college , how come i never got a smart lap dance ?
i never got a girl that sat on my lap and said , " if i was you , i would diversify my portfolio .
you know , ever since the end of the cold war , i find nato obsolete .
now , i' m 39 years old , 39 years old .
yep .
some people are like , " really ? " yeah .
new jack city' s a long time ago .
now , i' m 39 , right ?
and i still love rap music , i love rap music .
you know , i love it !
you know , i' m 39 , i' m that age , i' ve been loving rap music forever .
as i get older , i realise i' m gonna love rap music when i' m 80 .
whatever music was playing when you started getting laid , you gonna love that music for the rest of your life .
so i' m always gonna have a soft spot for whodini , you know what i mean ?
now i love rap music but i' m tired of defending it .
you gotta defend rap music cos people always go , " that' s not music , that' s not art .
how can you listen to that garbage ?
how can you listen to that trash ?
in the old days , it was easy to defend rap music .
it was easy to defend it on an intellectual level .
you could break it down intellectually why grandmaster flash was art , why run dmc was art , why whodini was art , and music .
you could break it down intellectually , ok ?
and i love all the rappers today but it' s hard to defend this shit .
it' s hard , man , it' s hard to defend " i got hoes in different area codes " .
on an intellectual level .
it' s hard to defend " move , bitch , get out the way " .
well , as you can see , there' s a bitch in his way .
now he needs to move .
thus the term , " move , bitch , get out the way " .
you need to open yo eyes so you can get the bitches out of yo way .
my favourite song right now is impossible to defend .
it' s impossible .
we should all be ashamed of ourself for liking this fucking song .
lil jon .
you know that shit .
to the window !
to the wall !
to the sweat drip from my balls !
to the sweat drip from my balls !
skeet !
skeet !
skeet !
skeet !
and you know what' s real wild ?
you go to a club , you see girls dance to that shit .
to the sweat drip from my balls !
to the sweat !
to the sweat drip from my balls !
my balls !
i feel sorry for the guys that gotta pick a wife out of this bunch .
daddy , where d' you meet mommy ?
she was singing about balls at a club .
that' s why people always say rap music is misogynistic and it' s degrading to women .
but what i realise , man , is women that like rap don' t give a fuck .
women that like rap don' t care what they saying .
if the beat' s all right she will dance all night .
women don' t give a fuck .
the nastier the better .
i see girls on the floor dancing to the nastiest shit ever made .
just on the floor , like smack her with a dick .
i' il put a dick in the ear , a dick in the ear .
fuck her in the eye .
blind the bitch .
and you know what' s wild ?
if you mention to a woman that the song is disgusting and misogynistic , they all give you the same answer
he ain' t talkin ' ' bout me .
smack her with a dick .
i' il put a dick in the ear .
he said your name !
no , he didn' t .
smack her with a dick .
love rap music , tired of defending it , man .
it' s weird with rap music because people either love it or hate it .
even the united states government hates rap .
the government hates rap .
you know why i say that ?
cos they don' t arrest anybody that kills rappers .
they don' t got no clues , no suspects .
they don' t have shit when it' s a dead rapper .
they don' t fill out a police report .
they don' t even have a chalk line for a dead rapper .
the cops just piss around the body .
smack her with a dick .
if you wanna get away with murder , just shoot somebody in the head and put a demo tape in they pocket .
this is a rap killing , let' s get outta here .
the government hates rap .
look at all the rappers , all the dead rappers .
i' m gonna list these motherfuckers , man .
biggie smalls , man .
biggie smalls gunned down outside a party in los angeles .
now biggie weighed about 400 pounds .
so they had to shoot him for a while .
there was some reloading in that drive by .
it' s like the bullet had to hit another bullet that went in before it ... just to really do damage .
they don' t got no clues , no suspects , a hamburger wrapper , nothing !
jam master jay , man .
jay , man , i miss jay .
i miss that man .
gunned down in a recording studio in queens , ok ?
they had surveillance footage of people coming in and out , they ain' t arrested nobody .
it' s like the guy came in the studio , shot jay , recorded an album , then left .
they ain' t get nobody .
no clues , no suspects , not a odor eater , nothing !
tupac shakur , man .
tupac was gunned down on the las vegas strip after a mike tyson fight .
now how many witnesses do you need to see some shit before you arrest somebody ?
shit .
more people saw tupac get shot than the last episode of seinfeld .
and you know what' s fucked up ?
every year , tupac comes back from the dead , records a new album with clues in it ...
every record got a clue if you listen real hard .
the brother in the red shot me dead .
right there !
track four !
pac is trying to tell us something .
listen again !
it was a nigger named kevin . " right there !
pac is reaching out to us .
listen !
the government hates rap , man .
and only rappers get gunned down like this .
i' il tell you right now , if billy joel , elton john and david bowie got shot , they' d have bruce springsteen' s house surrounded .
the government hates rap .
only the good rappers are dead , only the good ones .
biggie dead , tupac dead ,
vanilla ice still alive .
the government hates rap .
you mean to tell me they can find saddam hussein in a fucking hole but you can' t tell me who shot tupac ?
shit .
they found saddam hussein in fucking iraq .
tupac got shot in vegas !
in fucking vegas !
not on no side street , the motherfucker got shot on the strip !
in front of circus circus !
damn .
it' s all fucked up , the whole world' s fucked up , man .
michael jackson lost his mind .
what the hell is wrong with michael ?
another kid ?
i thought it was groundhog' s day when i heard that shit .
another kid ?
get the fuck out of here .
that' s how much we love michael .
we love michael so much , we let the first kid slide .
hey , man , the man made billie jean , leave him alone .
another kid ?
i' m fucking done .
i' m done with michael !
i was a fan my whole life ,
i am fucking done , i am handing in my glove , ok .
i saw michael on 60 minutes .
ed bradley tried his best to make michael look like a mammal .
or somebody that drank water and breathed air , right ?
he gave michael the easiest questions in the world , the easiest ged questions in the world , and michael could not pass the test .
it' s like , " uh , michael ,
do you think it' s proper for a 45 year old man
to sleep in a bed with 13 year old boys ?
yes !
ok , let me rephrase that .
would you let your children sleep in the bed of a 45 year old man
that' s been accused of child molestation ?
yes !
ed bradley looked at michael jackson like he wanted to say ,
nigger , is you crazy ?
like he wanted to take the 60 minutes clock and push the shit forward , say , " get the fuck off my show .
i thought you said it was 60 minutes .
it' s ten minutes , get outta here .
ya nutty nigger , what the fuck is wrong wit ' you ?
i' m done with michael , man .
you see michael go to court 20 minutes late .
what kind of black man gonna come to court 20 minutes late ?
this ain' t barbershop 2 .
this is court , motherfucker .
shit .
he don' t even wear a real suit to court , coming in there looking like cap' n crunch .
shit , who' s your lawyer ?
franken berry ?
better take your black ass to banana republic and get you a decent suit .
what the fuck is wrong with that boy ?
i' m done with michael .
another kid ?
that' s like another dead white girl showing up at oj' s house .
and oj going , " i know what you' re thinking ...
michael jackson going to jail .
it' s gonna be a sad sight when michael jackson goes to jail .
oh , we gonna shed a tear when michael jackson go to jail .
it ain' t even gonna be sad the day he go in .
it' s gonna be sad like a month later when that perm grows out of his hair .
the shit' s all nappy and grey .
when his make up' s all fucked up cos he don' t get the crayola people to fix his face no more .
that' s a fucking sad ass sight .
remember we used to have arguments about who was better , michael jackson or prince ?
prince won .
yeah , man , michael went crazy , then janet lost her damn mind , whipping out her titty on a sunday afternoon .
on a sunday afternoon !
what the fuck is wrong with this girl ?
this ain' t dj vu .
this ain' t magic city , motherfucker .
it' s the super bowl !
a titty on a sunday afternoon .
people coming home from church , turn on the tv .
oh , lord !
a titty on a sunday afternoon .
and a 40 year old titty at that .
you can' t just whip out a 40 year old titty .
that' s yo man' s titty .
that is yo man' s titty .
40 year old titty yo man' s titty .
20 year old titty community titty .
that' s for all to see .
the titty couldn' t even believe it was outside .
it was like , " oh , shit , what the fuck' s going on ?
close the door !
michael' s crazy , janet lost her mind , now i gotta see jermaine every week for the blow by blow .
i thought i was done with jermaine .
i got the do what you did when you did what to me album .
i thought i was done with jermaine .
jermaine looked crazier than michael .
what the fuck is up with jermaine ?
is it me or is jermaine the greasiest nigger you ever seen in your life ?
what the fuck ?
my god , man !
does he spray armor all on his face or some shit ?
just greasy motherfucker , my god .
just glistening like patrick ewing in the fourth quarter .
just slimy .
just greasy , shiny motherfucker , my god .
when jermaine' s on the tv , i gotta wipe the grease off the screen .
i can' t see shit
jermaine must have been on .
the police can' t even capture his ass cos he just slips out .
the police are like , " somebody throw some sand on that nigger !
please !
jacksons lost they mind , r kelly lost his mind and shit .
what the fuck is wrong with r kelly ?
he got a lot of balls , ok ?
talk about , " it ain' t me !
got a damn sex tape out .
it ain' t me .
motherfucker , we know what you look like .
that' s you , ok ?
there' s a damn soul train award right next to the bed !
best r & b ' 98 , that' s you !
i can' t even believe r kelly would come outside after this shit .
at one point on the tape , r kelly' s eating this girl' s ass out like it' s puppy chow .
he' s in her ass like he' s got diabetes and her ass got insulin in it .
lookin ' like the movie 28 days later .
r fucking kelly , man .
the whole world' s going crazy , man .
siegfried and roy , the tiger bit the man in the head , and everybody' s mad at the tiger .
talk about the tiger went crazy .
that tiger ain' t go crazy , that tiger went tiger !
you know when the tiger went crazy ?
when the tiger was riding round on a little bike with a hitler helmet on .
oh , shit , i' m a crazy tiger .
oh , lord , i' m crazy .
what is i gon ' do ?
whole damn country' s all fucked up .
we so desperate for entertainment everybody' s falling for this magician , david blaine .
what the fuck is this shit ?
are we so desperate that we fall for a trickless magician ?
where the fuck' s the trick ?
cut a lady in half !
pull a rabbit out a hat !
do something .
what' s his last trick ?
i' m in a box ...
and i ain' t gonna eat .
i' m in a box and i ain' t gonna eat .
that ain' t no trick , that' s called living in the projects .
shit , man .
kobe bryant lost his mind .
what the fuck is kobe thinking ?
what is on kobe' s mind going to colorado , around all these white people , and not bringing johnnie cochran ?
you gotta bring johnnie to that shit .
the girl' s still alive , johnnie' il knock this out in two weeks .
is she breathing ?
don' t worry about it .
kobe wouldn' t miss a practice if he had johnnie .
what the fuck ?
it don' t look right , man .
some people are like , " if you hire johnnie cochran you look guilty .
yeah , but you go home .
what , you wanna look innocent in jail ?
i' d rather look guilty at the mall .
kobe might go to jail , you never know .
a lot of people , " oh , kobe ain' t gonna go to jail cos kobe' s cute and cuddly .
no , he' s cute and cuddly , he' s positive .
yeah , kobe looks cute and cuddly on tv cos when you see him he' s standing next to shaq .
but in real life kobe' s like 6' 9 " , 6' 10 " .
shit , when he get to court , he gonna scare the shit out of them white people .
they gonna look at him like he' s a big old black praying mantis .
he gonna sit down at the witness stand , his knees gonna be up here .
put his hand on the bible , it covers up the whole bible .
and you see the girl , she came to court , she wasn' t fucking around .
she looked nice .
she got a nice pantsuit on , got her hair in pigtails .
yeah , she ain' t gonna have on no clear heels now , no .
that' s right .
she got on some comfortable flats .
and some thick ass stockings .
the thickest fucking stockings you ever seen in your life .
you gonna think she broke her leg , that' s how thick them stockings is .
she gonna come in the court like this .
your honour , my stockings are fucking thick .
a lot of people say , " well , this is what kobe gets for cheating .
he cheated and that' s what he gets .
that' s what he gets .
i know some of you women been cheated on before .
i know some of you ...
ok , fuck it , i' m sure most of you women been cheated on before .
some of y' all are with the guy that cheated on you right now .
and the guys are like , " would you shut the fuck up ?
do some old shit , ' toss my salad ' , one of them .
no .
men are just low , ladies .
some women are like , " if i lost weight , he wouldn' t cheat .
if i was more beautiful , he wouldn' t cheat .
yes , he would .
he would .
there ain' t nothing you can do , ladies .
the only thing you can do to stop your man cheating ...
the women are like this ...
only thing you can do ... is be there .
where ?
there .
wherever he' s thinking about fucking her .
just be right there .
and even then he still might lose yo ass .
hey , honey , look , a sale !
let me go fuck this bitch right now .
oh , man !
no .
the beauty don' t matter .
kobe cheated on his wife and kobe' s wife is fine .
kobe' s wife is gorgeous .
my god !
that' s a fuckin ' seorita out this motherfucker .
a hot tamale out this motherfucker .
kobe' s wife is fine shit .
i would trade my wife and two aunts for kobe' s , man .
i' il throw in a cousin and my momma if i have to .
come on , momma , we got to close this deal .
don' t let all this celebrity news fool you right now .
all this stuff going on in the news is just a trick to get yo mind off the war .
that' s all it is .
it' s a trick to get yo mind off the war .
i think bush sent that girl to kobe' s room .
bush sent that girl to kobe' s room , bush sent that little boy to michael jackson' s house ,
bush killed laci peterson .
bush was fucking paris hilton in that video .
all to get yo mind off the war .
bush lied to me , they all lied to me .
we gotta go to iraq cos they the most dangerous country on earth .
they the most dangerous regime in the world .
if they so dangerous , how come it only took two weeks to take over the whole fucking country ?
shit .
man , you couldn' t take over baltimore in two weeks .
get the fuck outta here .
looking for weapons of mass destruction .
can' t even find a wiffle ball bat .
ain' t even a fucking fly swatter yet .
give me something , shit !
attack , motherfucker .
let me get a fucking paper cut over that motherfucker .
nothing !
not a damn thing .
weapons of mass destruction .
they got whatshisname , they got saddam hussein , that' s cool .
i was a little sad when they got saddam .
that' s kinda like the coyote catching the roadrunner .
i guess acme finally made some shit that worked .
i didn' t even know we was after saddam , i thought we was after bin laden .
what the fuck happened ?
i thought we was after bin laden .
shit .
when did bin laden give hussein the baton of hate ?
when did he pass it on ?
they hate me , they hate me ...
they hate you !
run !
oh , shit .
shit , man , when i heard we was after hussein , i was like , " really ?
that' s so ' 80s .
the whole war seemed like a bad vh1 special .
hussein' s back and bush is back and cheney' s back and paula abdul' s back .
shit , before you know it , it' il be hammer time again .
stop .
hammer time .
no , when the war started , it was great .
brought out a lot of patriotism .
patriotism' s beautiful .
but slowly but surely , the patriotism turned into hate riotism .
when the war started , it was great .
people had their flags up .
people screaming out " usa ! " for no reason .
you go to a baseball game , a football game , a basketball game , people are , " usa !
i' m like , " hey , calm down .
that' s got a little german on it , don' t you think ?
you know , people start freaking out .
people got it ...
at first the war was cool .
people got into this whole hate the french thing .
i don' t understand that shit .
fuck france , man .
they don' t wanna help us out .
don' t eat no french fries .
fuck the french , man .
motherfuck france , fuck ' em , man .
cos they wouldn' t help us out in the war .
the united states is the biggest , most powerful country in the world .
why the fuck would anybody help us in the war ?
would you help mike tyson beat up urkel ?
don' t make no sense !
but people started freaking out .
the war was weird .
on tv you' d see these weird white guys .
nobody here , you guys are ok .
see these weird white guys getting overly patriotic and they have their fucking flag hats on and their flag drawers and their flag pick ups .
i' m american , man , i' m american .
fuck all these fucking foreigners .
i' m american !
you' re like , " hey , calm the fuck down .
there was a lot of accepted racism when the war started .
i' m american .
fuck all these foreigners .
and that was cool .
then it was , " i' m american .
fuck the french .
that was cool .
i' m american .
fuck all these arabs .
and that was cool .
then they went to ,
i' m american .
fuck all these illegal aliens .
then i started listening .
cos i know niggers and jews is next .
it' s like , any day now !
that train' s never late !
and people started screaming they was american .
a lot of white people scream they american as if they got something to do with the country being the way it is .
like they was on the mayflower or some shit .
when you break it down , there ain' t even that many americans in this room , contributing americans .
check this out .
if you a veteran , if you fought in any war for the united states , you are american .
god bless all the veterans .
big up to the veterans .
i can' t say nothing wrong about the veterans .
ok ?
you american .
now if you swam here from some shitty country that didn' t allow you bubblicious , you too are american cos you overcame obstacles and made sacrifices to actually get here .
you are a true american , ok ?
you really are .
don' t let nobody tell you no different .
everybody else , you' re just lucky .
you' re just lucky .
all you crazy white people , " i' m american !
all you did was come out of your mother' s pussy on american soil .
that' s it .
you think you' re better than somebody from france cos you came out of a pussy in detroit ?
the whole country' s got a fucked up mentality , man .
we all got a gang mentality .
republicans are fucking idiots , the democrats are fucking idiots , conservatives are idiots and liberals are idiots .
anyone that makes up they mind before they hear the issue is a fucking fool , ok ?
everybody ...
no , everybody' s so busy wanting to be down with a gang
i' m a conservative , i' m a liberal . " it' s bullshit .
be a fucking person .
listen .
let it swirl around yo head .
then form yo opinion .
no normal , decent person is one thing , ok ?
i got some shit i' m conservative about , i got some shit i' m liberal about .
crime , i' m conservative .
prostitution , i' m liberal .
and they keep trying to scare us .
everybody' s trying to scare us .
telling us to be on the lookout for al qaeda .
like , " where ?
i ain' t scared of al qaeda .
i' m from brooklyn , i don' t give a fuck about al qaeda .
shit .
motherfucking al qaeda .
shit , did al qaeda blow up the building in oklahoma ?
no .
did al qaeda put anthrax in your mail ?
no .
did al qaeda drag james byrd down the street till his eyeballs popped out of his fucking head ?
no .
i ain' t scared of al qaeda , i' m scared of al cracker .
cracker al .
gotta look out for cracker al .
he' s a dangerous motherfucker !
but american people , whenever you leave ...
i love my country , but whenever you leave , you find out people really hate america .
it' s good sometimes .
cos we got so much shit , ok ?
america' s the only country in the world where people go hunting on a full stomach .
it' s beautiful .
that' s how good we got it .
america' s a great country .
but here' s the thing , people hate america cos we can' t make up our mind what we wanna be .
america does good things , america does bad things , america does schizophrenic things .
one cool thing america does , that i love , is we feed other countries .
it' s beautiful that we feed other countries .
yes , it is !
but we only feed them when they' re starving .
why can' t we feed them when they' re hungry ?
they didn' t just wake up with flies around their lips and bellies out to here .
it took a while for shit to get that bad .
and our government' s like , " nah , wait for the flies .
two more weeks .
wait for the flies .
come on , more flies !
and we send them food .
do we send them the good shit ?
no .
what do we send them ?
grain .
anybody here have grain today ?
anybody going to mcgrainies after the show ?
why can' t we send them the good shit ?
why can' t we send some cheez doodles , some funyuns , some twinkies ?
why can' t we just pour some gravy on the people ?
just get a big old vat of gravy and pour it out the helicopter .
there you go .
drink up .
have some gravy .
people going , " i love america !
it' s raining gravy !
shit , give them a whopper , it' s only 99 cents .
shit , we call ourselves humanitarians , meanwhile we' re dropping 50 pound sacks on 40 pound people .
but i love america , man .
we got a lot of freedom in america .
for instance , abortion' s legal .
it' s beautiful that abortion' s legal , man .
i love going to abortion rallies to pick up women .
cos you know they' il fuck you .
you ain' t gonna find a bunch of virgins at the abortion rally .
you might even see some clear heels !
what you doing here , girl ?
fucked up again .
the abortion issue , it' s a woman' s issue .
a woman gets pregnant , she don' t wanna hear shit from the man .
fuck you , i don' t need you , motherfuck you .
unless she decides to have the baby .
then she' s like , " where' s my cheque ?
when a woman gets pregnant , it' s a choice between the woman and her girlfriends .
a woman gets pregnant , her and her girlfriends get together , and they have a little abortion tribunal , and they vote on the baby like it' s survivor .
each girlfriend puts in her two cents .
one goes , " child , you should have that baby .
that man got some good hair , it' s wavy , it' s wavy .
the other girlfriend goes , " why are we talking about this ?
ain' t we going to cancun next week ?
get rid of that baby !
and that' s how life is decided in america .
now , fellas , if you get a woman pregnant , you' re only allowed to say two things .
and guess what , fellas ?
you can' t even suggest abortion .
if you say , " a " , you fucked up .
you can' t even suggest abortion .
guess what , guys ?
you don' t wanna suggest abortion .
if you suggest abortion and then she has the baby , when that kid' s about five , six years old , he gonna be cursing yo ass out .
you go , " what' s up , little man ?
how you doing ?
i' m alive , that' s how the fuck i' m doing !
you wanted me dead , huh , bitch ?
i' m alive , motherfucker .
i should bust a cap in yo ass .
you don' t need that drama .
so do not suggest abortion .
now , fellas , if you get a woman pregnant , you only got two things to say .
two ways to try it on .
now , the first thing you can say is , " wow , i can' t believe you' re pregnant .
i' m so happy .
i can' t wait for you to have this baby .
i love you so much .
i' il try it again .
wow , i can' t believe that you' re pregnant .
i' m so happy .
i can' t wait to have this baby .
i love you so much .
that' s cool .
now , if you don' t wanna say that , you got one more choice .
a woman walks in the room , tells you that she' s pregnant , you look her dead in the eye and you say ...
so what you gonna do ?
good , it ain' t just me .
one thing i don' t like about america is we got real bad drug policy .
horrible drug policy .
we got people in jail for getting high .
for getting high , man .
that' s fucked up , man .
the government says drugs are illegal because we' re trying to protect society .
but they don' t give a fuck about yo safety , they sell guns at wal mart , they don' t give a fuck about you .
no , the government' s like this they don' t want you to use your drugs , they want you to use their drugs .
so every night on tv you see a weird ass drug commercial trying to get you hooked on some legal shit .
and they just keep naming symptoms till they get one that you fucking got , ok ?
it' s like , " are you sad ?
are you lonely ?
you got athlete' s foot ?
are you hot ?
are you cold ?
what you got ?
you want this pill , huh , motherfucker .
you got to take this pill .
they don' t even tell you what the pill does .
you see a lady on a horse or a man in the tub .
and they just keep naming symptoms .
are you depressed ?
are you lonely ?
do your teeth hurt ? " what the fuck ?
i saw a commercial the other day that said , " do you go to bed at night
and wake up in the morning ?
shit they got one .
i got that .
i' m sick , i need that pill .
the government trying to get you hooked on some legal fucking shit .
and that' s the truth , man .
the reason coke and weed are illegal in america don' t got shit to do with yo safety .
the reason that coke and weed are illegal in america is cos the best coke and weed ain' t made in america .
if they made the good shit here , there' d be a coke and weed restaurant on every fucking corner .
that' s right .
wouldn' t be no starbucks , it' d be weedbucks .
mcdonald' s , mccokeald' s .
uh , get me a happy meal and an eight ball , thank you .
krispy kreme , kracky kreme .
that' s how good krispy kreme doughnuts are .
krispy kreme doughnuts are so good , if i told you they had crack in it , you' d go , " i knew something was up .
i knew .
these doughnuts are too damn good , man .
got me knockin ' on the doughnut window at two in the morning .
come on , man , open up , man .
give me one more doughnut !
i' il do anything !
i' il suck your dick !
that should be the new slogan for krispy kreme .
krispy kreme so good you' il suck a dick .
these are some good ass doughnuts .
you' d be mad if your kid ate your doughnuts .
you know what i had to do to get them doughnuts ?
leave them alone !
now i gotta go out and suck some more dick for doughnuts .
kids will never learn , shit .
no , man , the government , they will never legalise drugs in america .
ok , the first reason they will never legalise drugs in america is because the government makes way too much money putting our brothers and sisters in fucking jail .
that' s first of all .
for bullshit .
the second reason the government will never legalise drugs in america is because , god forbid , some brown people got wealthy .
can' t have that .
cos drugs come from brown countries .
we can' t have wealthy brown people .
there are no wealthy black or brown people in america .
we got some rich ones , we don' t got no fucking wealth .
people go , " what' s the difference ?
here' s the difference .
shaq is rich .
the white man that signs his cheque is wealthy .
here you go , shaq .
go buy yourself a bouncing car .
bling bling !
i' m not talking ' bout rich , i' m talking ' bout wealth , ok ?
i' m talking about the white family that owns all the similac .
those rich motherfuckers .
i' m talking about the white family that owns the colour blue .
those rich bastards .
i ain' t talking ' bout oprah , i' m talking ' bout bill gates , ok ?
if bill gates woke up tomorrow with oprah' s money he' d jump out a fucking window .
he' d slit his throat on the way down .
ah , shit .
i can' t even put gas in my plane .
i' m not talking ' bout rich , i' m talking ' bout wealth .
cos wealth will set us fucking free , ok ?
cos wealth is empowering .
wealth can uplift communities from poverty , ok ?
a white man gets wealthy , he builds wal marts and makes other white people have some motherfucking money .
a brother gets rich , he buys some motherfucking jewellery , ok ?
do you know what the fuck i' m talking ' bout ?
i ain' t talking ' bout rich , i' m talking ' bout wealth .
wealth is passed down from generation to generation .
you can' t get rid of wealth .
rich is some shit you can lose with a crazy summer and a drug habit .
fuck , rick james was rich .
one minute you' re singing super freak , the next you' re doing old navy commercials .
give it to me , baby !
give me corduroy !
not talking ' bout rich , i' m talking ' bout wealth .
don' t get me wrong , it' s not all white people' s fault that black and brown people don' t have any fucking wealth .
maybe now just maybe maybe if we didn' t spend all our money on rims we might have some ... to invest .
we don' t give a fuck , boy .
black people , we love rims .
we will put shiny ass rims on any piece of shit car in the world .
we don' t give a fuck .
a brother would put rims on a toaster if you' d let him .
yo , man , i got some raisin toast sittin ' on 22s .
22s !
look at the motherfuckers , look at ' em !
and they spinnin ' , look at they spinnin ' !
they spinnin ' , look at they spinnin ' !
we don' t give a fuck .
money' s new to black people .
we the most money wasting motherfuckers on the face of the earth .
we spend money like we think the shit' s gonna rot .
brothers riding around with tvs in the headrests of the car .
the tvs is on and ain' t nobody in the back seat .
i ain' t talking ' bout rich , i' m talking ' bout wealth .
now , when it comes to acquiring a fortune , when it comes to acquiring wealth in the united states of america , different people have gone about it in different ways .
there' s a saying about wealth , there' s a saying about fortunes , and the saying is , " behind every great fortune there' s a great crime .
and some of the richest , most powerful people in the united states are the descendants of drug dealers .
kennedys , brockmans , it' s all drug money .
they call it bootlegging but that' s just a white word that means drug dealing .
they didn' t sell boots , they sold the crack of their day , ok ?
they killed cops and kids , and that' s cool , good for them .
now ... when it' s time for other people to come up and acquire wealth the rules change .
one of the number one rules when it comes to acquiring wealth goes like this .
the rule is , only the white man can profit from pain .
only the white man can profit from pain .
so if you' re black or brown , you can make money and prosper and get rich in america .
but whatever you decide to do , it better be positive .
cos if one person is harmed , you will be destroyed , ok ?
every now and then oprah has a show where she' s just giving away money .
you know why ?
she' s trying to keep the feds off her back .
only the white man can profit from pain , ok ?
white man makes alcohol , tastes great , i love it , you love it , we all love it .
kills motherfuckers every single day , ok ?
some of y' all ain' t even gonna make it home tonight cos of alcohol .
driving home , " that chris rock sure is funny .
oh , shit !
but it' s all right cos it' s all white .
white man makes cigarettes .
cigarettes are the most dangerous product known to man .
kills motherfuckers every fucking day .
cigarettes are so dangerous , it kills motherfuckers that don' t smoke !
that' s how fucking dangerous cigarettes are .
that' s right .
first hand smoke , second hand smoke , people talking into machines .
hey , what' s up , man ?
i love cigarettes .
this shit is good .
but it' s all right cos it' s all white .
shit , could you imagine if the philip morris family was a bunch of jheri curled niggers from mississippi .
do you know how illegal a pack of cigarettes would be ?
you would get 60 years for a pack of newports .
but it' s all right cos it' s all white .
that' s right .
white man makes guns , nobody gives a fuck .
white man makes guns , kids shoot up each other in schools , nobody gives a fuck .
white man makes guns , no problem .
black rapper says " gun " ,
congressional hearing .
like , " my god , that nigger said gun !
and he rhymed it with fun !
and that' s why people hate america ... the hypocrisy of our democracy , ok ?
that' s why they hate america .
but let me tell you right now , the number one reason people hate america , the number one reason , is because of our religion .
americans worship money .
we worship money .
separate god from school , separate god from work , separate god from government , but on your money it says , " in god we trust " .
all my life i' ve been looking for god and he' s right in my pocket .
americans worship money .
and we all go to the same church the church of atm .
everywhere you look , there' s a new branch popping up , reminding you about how much money you got or how much money you don' t got .
and if you got less than $20 , the machine won' t even talk to you .
the machine' s like , " you better go see a teller .
you ever go to a teller and try to take out $8 . 50 ?
it' s disgusting .
man , you gotta wait on that long ass line .
people doing real transactions in front of you .
you get up to the fucking front , fill out your form .
eight fifty .
the fucking teller looks at it , she looks at you , she looks at the chit .
she don' t even take the money out the drawer , she take it out her pocket .
wastin ' my time .
get the fuck outta here , shit .
i think every bank should have a box of ones by the door for they broke ass customers .
i don' t need free checking , i need lunch money .
trying to buy me some pork fried rice , man .
here' s the other thing , man .
drugs are illegal but atm machines are open 24 hours a day .
24 hours a day .
for who ?
who the fuck is it open for ?
have you ever taken out $300 at four o' clock in the morning for something positive ?
shit , when you press that machine at four o' clock in the morning ,
i think a psychiatrist should pop up on the screen and go , " come on , man .
save your money , man .
don' t buy drugs , buy some rims .
they spinnin ' , look at they spinnin ' !
they spinnin ' !
they spinnin ' , look at they spinnin ' !
americans worship money .
shit , you know why banks are closed on sunday ?
cos if they wasn' t church' d be empty .
now , i love america , man , i must say .
i love america .
i got to say , america is the greatest country in the world , ok ?
it' s the greatest country in the world .
in the whole world .
it' s the best place .
there' s no place i' d rather be or be from .
and we are all lucky to be here .
everybody in this room , lucky to be here .
even black people , lucky to be here .
but if you black , you gotta look at america a little different .
if you black , america' s like the uncle that paid your way through college but molested you .
you gotta forgive , right ?
you gotta forgive .
what' s the biggest issue in america right now ?
the most divisive issue in america is affirmative action .
a lot of people think it' s to do with the ' 60s , the back of the bus , separate lunch counters .
no .
when you see footage of the ' 60s , see black people , see us getting sprayed down , dogs getting sicked on us , little girls getting burnt up in churches , that' s just white people being nice .
nicer than they was in the ' 50s , ' 40s , and ' 30s .
shit , there' s black people that died in the ' 30s that was looking down from heaven in the ' 60s going , " man , them niggers got it good .
no , affirmative action was put into place to offset policies that the united states government implemented during slavery that affect us today .
when i talk about slavery , i' m just talking about a period of time where black people had no rights .
so you' re talking about the 1600s to about 1964 .
you know , give or take a year , depending on when yo town decided to act right .
people go , " what happened during slavery that could affect us today ?
a lot of shit happened during slavery that affects us every day .
for instance , during slavery , they used to take the biggest , strongest slaves and breed them and try their best to make big , strong super slaves , ok ?
that' s right .
and there' s evidence of that today .
like the nfl , for instance .
nfl stands for nigger fucking large .
they bred the slaves , and this is why black people dominate every physical activity in the united states of america .
we' re only 10 %% of the population , we' re 90 %% of the final four , ok ?
we fucking dominate all this shit , ok ?
basketball , baseball , football , boxing , track , even golf and tennis .
as soon as they make a heated hockey rink , we gonna take that shit too .
motherfuck wayne gretzky .
wait till you see lebron on some skates .
you ain' t seen shit yet .
he just gonna have one skate , chilling , " what' s up ?
he ain' t gonna have a stick .
he gonna smack the puck with his dick .
slapshot bi atch !
so that' s what they did to the big , strong slaves .
and you know what they did to the smart ones ?
or at least the ones they thought were smart .
they killed them .
that' s what they did .
that' s right .
that was the policy of the united states government , to kill smart black people .
that' s right .
so the real smart motherfuckers had to hide the fact that they were smart .
the law of the land was , if you read , you die .
if you read , fucking die , ok ?
so you know what that means ?
the first black drug dealers didn' t even sell drugs .
they sold books .
yo , man , i got two pages , man , got two pages , man , check it out , man .
yo , man , i got a word , check it out , man , i got a new word .
i got a new word , man .
it' s new , man , it' s new , man .
so think about the poor slaves that could read but had to hide it .
think about the poor slaves that could read but was scared to teach they kids to read for fear they' d be killing they kids .
think about the poor slave who used to drive the buggy into town every day .
used to drive the buggy .
he' s driving the buggy and he could read .
and up ahead he sees a real busy intersection .
he' s driving the buggy .
and then he sees a stop sign .
now he' s got a real dilemma .
oh , lor , " what is i gon ' do ?
oh , lor , what is i gon ' do ?
ok , if i go across this intersection ,
i' m a have a accident .
if i stop at this sign , these crackers' il kill me .
oh , lor , what is i gon ' do ?
and he don' t know .
and he' s riding the buggy .
he says , " fuck it , " and goes through the intersection .
he has a big old accident , wipes out .
wipes out , almost kills somebody .
and the police come .
nigger , what' s wrong with you ?
what the fuck is wrong with you ?
you could' ve killed somebody , nigger .
you see that stop sign ?
i don' t know what you talking ' bout , sir .
nigger , you see that stop sign right there ?
do you mean that octagon thing ?
nigger , who taught you octagon ?
don' t get me wrong with affirmative action .
i don' t think i should get a job over a white person if i get a lower mark in a test .
i don' t think i should get accepted into a school over a white person if i get a lower mark .
but if there' s a tie , fuck ' em .
shit , you had a 400 year head start , motherfucker .
white man , you gonna be all right .
you know , a lot of people say , " if you' re the smartest and the brightest ,
you won' t need affirmative action , if you strive to be the smartest and the brightest .
they say that as if the country is run by the smartest and the brightest .
i was in black schools and white schools so you can' t tell me shit .
when you go to a class , there are 30 kids .
five smart , five dumb , and the rest are in the middle .
and that' s all america is a nation in the middle .
a nation of b and c students , that' s all the fuck it is .
a nation of b and c students .
but let' s keep it fucking real , ok ?
a black c student can' t run no fucking company .
a black c student can' t even be the manager of burger king .
meanwhile , the white c student just happens to be the president of the united states of america .
other people got they problems right now in america .
what' s the other big issue in america right now ?
should gays be allowed to marry ?
the beautiful thing about the gay marriage issue is it' s the absolute only issue the president will answer .
the president don' t give a fuck , he will give you a straight answer on gay marriage .
mr president , when' s the war gonna end ?
well , we' re talking to people , we' re looking for stuff , it' s out there ,
you never know how it' s gonna end .
mr president , when' s the economy gonna pick up ?
well , we' re talking to people ,
and economic indicators indicate that indications are coming to the indicator .
mr president , what about gay marriage ?
fuck them faggots .
damn , that' s some harsh shit .
people always say , we can' t have gay marriage cos marriage is a sacred institution that happens in the church .
it' s sacred !
no , it' s not .
marriage ain' t sacred .
not in america .
not in the country that watches who wants to marry a millionaire ?
and the bachelorette and who wants to marry a midget ?
get the fuck outta here .
shit .
gay people got a right to be as miserable as everybody else .
get the fuck outta here .
michael jackson got married .
how fucking sacred is that shit ?
but i' m married .
it' s a beautiful thing , man .
and i don' t cheat .
i don' t .
no .
not because i' m a great husband , just cos i' m tired of getting caught .
gotta put the girls in the mistress protection programme .
from now on your name is carol .
if anybody calls you lisa , ignore ' em .
ok , lisa ?
ok .
bitch , you gonna get us killed !
the fuck is wrong with you ?
you won' t last five minutes on the streets .
now i don' t cheat , man .
another big reason i don' t cheat is cos i never meet any girls that wanna fuck me .
i' m just not that celebrity .
i don' t bring it out of them .
women see denzel washington , they go , " i' m gonna fuck him .
they start kicking off shoes soon as they see his ass .
women see me , occasionally they wanna fuck me , but when women wanna fuck me , they get real practical about it .
they go , " you know what ?
i bet you if i fucked chris rock ,
i could get him to pay my visa bill .
i have paid so many college loans in my day .
i have put more girls through school than the united negro college fund .
shit , i should' ve had my own dorm at howard .
and this is the chris rock cafeteria .
chris loves sloppy joes !
yes , i' m married , and bored out of my fucking mind .
but it' s a beautiful thing , a beautiful thing .
if you' re in a good relationship , chances are you' re bored out of your fucking mind .
all good relationships are boring .
the only exciting relationships are bad ones .
you never know what' s gonna happen tomorrow in a bad relationship .
you never know when you' re gonna walk in and go , " hey , you gave me crabs !
that' s exciting .
i wonder what tomorrow' s gonna bring .
and those are the choices you got in life .
you can be married and bored or single and lonely .
ain' t no happiness nowhere .
married and bored or single and lonely .
that' s right .
marriage is some boring ass shit .
once you get married , you gotta hang around other married people and that' s just disgusting .
you ever go to dinner with six neutered adults ?
a bunch of women talking about diaper genies and hair colouring .
you know , if you leave it in too long it stings .
shut the fuck up .
a bunch of men talking about barbecue grills and routes to work .
sometimes i take the highway but if it' s backed up , i got some side streets
that get me there in half the time .
check it out .
l 95 is clear sometimes ... " shut the fuck up !
i hate married people .
it' s fucking disgusting .
if you go to eat dinner with single people , single people eat for an hour and 30 minutes and leave , cos they got fucking to do .
married people close down a restaurant .
they start ordering coffee and dessert .
start talking to the architect .
i like the thing you put right there .
start talking to the cook .
what' s in the tea ?
water , bitch !
hurry up , we got a lot of not fucking to do .
if you hurry up , we can not fuck all night .
i hate married fucking people , man .
and , fellas , once you get married , you become your wife' s pet .
you become a fucking pet .
cos women like to get they husbands together that don' t even know each other , and have like a grown man play date .
put you in a room with some other married motherfucker and go , " he likes baseball just like you .
and you' re in some room with some fucking stranger going , " i like baseball .
i like baseball too .
yeah .
yeah , baseball , good .
yeah .
honey , who the fuck is this ?
get me the fuck out of here , i don' t need no new friends .
if you wanna help me out , introduce me to a girl .
i hate married people , man .
whenever i go out with other married couples , i like to bring a single crackhead .
just to spicen up the activities .
come on , tell us some of your cracky tales , please .
married and bored , single and lonely .
the problem with relationships , people want too much .
everybody' s looking for a soul mate .
we' re soul mates , we' re one , we' re soul mates .
i' m a pisces , he' s aquarius , we' re perfect .
we' re soul mates , it' s incredible .
his moon is my star and it' s a soul mate .
we complete each other and finish each other' s sentences .
the other day i said , ' honey , it' s gonna rain , ' and he said rain too !
it' s amazing !
it' s like we' re telekinesic , we' re telekinesic .
it' s incredible , my god .
nobody gets a soul mate .
it don' t happen .
nobody .
not even james brown , the godfather of soul , he don' t even get a soul mate , as we all saw a couple of weeks ago .
james brown looking like nick nolte .
like , he put the good foot in her ass .
nobody gets a soul mate .
all you gonna get in life if you lucky is a mate .
just a mate .
somebody you fuck , go to movies with .
you fuck , go to another movie .
you fuck , go to a comedy show .
you fuck , go to your grandmomma' s house .
you fuck , go to your momma' s house .
you fuck , go see another movie .
somewhere in between fucking and movies , he goes , " wanna get something to eat ?
that' s all relationships are , they ain' t that complicated .
it' s fucking and eating .
if you don' t like fucking somebody and you don' t like eating with them , y' all don' t need to be together .
and the longer you' re with somebody , it' s more eating and less fucking .
you don' t remember the last time you fucked but you know you had rice and beans on wednesday .
you' re never gonna get a soul mate , the perfect person .
you' re never gonna meet somebody that loves seinfeld and the wu tang clan .
it ain' t happening .
even if you meet the perfect person , it ain' t gonna be the perfect time .
you' re married , they' re single .
that' s right .
you' re jewish , they' re palestinian .
you' re mexican , they' re a raccoon .
you' re a black woman , he' s a black man .
there' s always a obstacle in the way .
you' re never gonna meet the perfect person , it' s never gonna happen , ok ?
every now and then , god likes to play practical jokes on people .
god will send you on a double date with the perfect couple .
you ever been out with the perfect couple ?
ever made the mistake of going on a double date with a couple that' s actually in love ?
you in the middle of your bullshit relationship .
and you sit down with two people that' s in love .
you can' t even eat your food cos you can' t believe what the fuck you are witnessing .
you got a fork in your hand , you' re like , " oh , shit .
he' s really listening to what she' s got to say .
they really like being around each other .
man , we can' t hang with them no more .
they gonna break us up !
can' t let these happy motherfuckers fuck up my life .
no way !
see , the thing is , men , we are ill prepared when it comes to relationships .
we are ill prepared .
that' s right .
you would think by now women would rule the world .
you would think women would rule the world .
but they don' t !
they don' t .
you know why ?
cos women hate women .
women hate women .
you do .
you get any two girlfriends in this room , been girlfriends for 25 years , you put a man in between them , " fuck that bitch .
women hate women .
guys are not like that .
guys actually think there' s other fish in the sea .
if a guy introduces his boy to his new girlfriend , when they walk away , his boy goes , " man , she' s nice .
i gotta get me a girl like that .
if a woman introduces her new man to her girlfriend , when they walk away , her girlfriend goes ,
i gotta get him .
and i will slit that bitch' s throat to do it .
shit , every woman in here got a girlfriend they don' t trust around they man .
a good girlfriend too .
i' il go shopping with her
but i ain' t gonna leave that bitch with my man for five minutes .
i remember one time , one time i was in a restaurant , me , my wife , her girlfriend .
my wife said , " i' m going to the bathroom .
i say , " ok , i' il see you when you get back .
she said , " no , you coming with me .
and she made me come with her .
and she did the right thing cos i' d have fucked the girl .
i' d have fucked her on the quesadilla , i don' t give a fuck .
nah , man .
but one thing i learned , man , once you get married , fellas , women wanna be responsible for all your happiness .
all your happiness .
you got that ?
not some of it .
all of it .
fellas , you ever have your woman catch you jerking off ?
ever have your woman catch you jerking off ?
did she get mad at you , even though she wasn' t thinking about fucking you ?
here' s the real deal , she ain' t mad you was jerking off .
she' s mad you was making yourself happy .
how dare you make yourself fucking happy ?
i' m in charge of happiness in this house .
you' il be miserable till i fucking say so .
take your hands out yo pockets !
another thing with women , one thing about women , women hate for you to expect anything .
don' t expect shit .
a woman can cook for you every day for five years .
every day food is on the table , every day at 7 : 49 , every day .
the day you come home , there ain' t no food , and you ask nicely , " honey , where' s the food ?
what am i , your fuckin ' maid ?
you need to learn how to cook for yourself , you stupid motherfucker .
so , fellas , in order to avoid this , what you gotta do is act super nice every time she does anything .
no matter how little it is , make a big deal out of it .
if she pour you some water , you gotta go , " wow , water !
get outta here .
you' re incredible !
you' re so smart !
she fucking folds a napkin .
wow , look at that !
you' re incredible .
you gotta treat ' em like retarded kids , ok ?
man .
that' s right .
married and bored , single and lonely .
that' s right , guys .
here' s the thing when you' re married , you wanna kill your spouse .
when you' re single , you wanna kill yourself .
better her than me .
anybody in this room that' s ever been in love will testify to this shit .
if you haven' t contemplated murder , you ain' t been in love .
if you haven' t seriously thought about killing the motherfucker , you ain' t been in love .
if you haven' t had a can of rat poison in your hand and looked at it for 45 minutes straight , you ain' t been in love .
if you haven' t bought a shovel and a bag and a rug to roll they ass up in , you ain' t been in love .
if you haven' t practised your alibi in front of the mirror ... you ain' t been in love .
the only thing that stopped you from killing this motherfucker was an episode of csl .
man , they thorough .
i' d better make up , they might catch my ass .
that' s right , man .
see , relationships are hard .
but in order for any relationship to work , both people have to be on the same page .
both people have to have the same focus .
and we all know what that page is , what that focus is .
in order for the relationship to work , both people have to have the same focus , and the focus is all about her .
it' s all about her .
she' s already there , fellas , she' s waiting for you to come aboard .
fellas , when you wake up in the morning , you should look yourself in the mirror and say , " fuck you .
fuck your hopes , fuck your dreams , fuck your plans ,
fuck everything you thought this life was gonna bring you .
now let' s go out there and try and make this bitch happy .
yes .
it' s all about her , fellas .
say yes to everything .
everything .
everything you can afford , say yes to .
just say yes .
before she even gets it out of her fucking mouth .
honey , can ... " yes .
honey , i ... " yes .
just get a stamp .
yes .
another thing , fellas don' t argue .
you cannot win .
you cannot beat a woman in an argument , it' s impossible .
you will not win , cos men , we are handicapped when it comes to arguing cos we have a need to make sense .
women ain' t gonna let a little thing like sense fuck up they argument .
cos she not in it for sense , she' s in it for distance and irritation .
how long can i talk before this motherfucker snaps ?
they want you to shake the shit out of them till you hear the cops coming .
motherfucker , i' m serious !
oh , shit , let me get the fuck outta here .
that' s right .
and like i said , try your best to make her happy .
try your best .
but here' s one thing nobody tells you .
you can' t make a woman happy .
it' s impossible .
i' ve never met a happy woman in my life .
women are always complaining about something .
women like to complain , women save up shit to complain about .
he don' t even know i know but i' m gonna get his ass on that shit next month .
they like fucking complaining .
they love it .
no matter what you do , she' il be mad .
you can fuck a woman with a diamond dick and make her come ten times , she' il still complain .
why' d you make me come so hard ?
this diamond dick is cloudy .
why didn' t you go to tiffany' s ?
you' re so fucking cheap .
no matter what you do , your woman is mad at you .
if you work all the time , " why you work all the time ?
you ain' t never home .
you always leavin ' me .
i hate this shit .
if you home all the time , " why you all up under me ?
let me get some fucking room to breathe .
damn , stop sweatin ' me .
i hate this shit .
if you make more money than her .
fuck you .
i wanna make decisions too .
you ain' t my fucking daddy , i don' t need you to take care of me .
i hate this shit .
if she makes more money than you ,
you broke motherfucker .
you never have no fucking money .
fuck this shit .
i don' t wanna make all these decisions .
i need to be taken care of .
i hate this shit .
i can' t take it .
and the number one reason your woman' s always mad , fellas , the number one reason your woman is pissed the fuck off ... cos you ain' t her first choice .
fellas , you ever catch your woman just looking at you but not saying nothing ?
in her mind , she' s thinking , " how did i end up with this ugly motherfucker ?
lord , this motherfucker' s ugly and stupid .
i had a good man and i blew it .
damn , lord , kill my man .
kill him , please .
kill him while i still look good enough to get something new .
please kill this motherfucker now .
strike him !
if you out there , lord , strike this motherfucker dead .
nothing gets you ready for marriage , man .
nothing .
nobody .
nothing gets you ready for marriage .
nobody tells you that once you get married , you will never fuck again .
if you like fucking , marriage ain' t for you .
shit , i haven' t fucked in seven years .
i' ve had intercourse .
intercourse is when she gets out of the shower on the nice sheets .
fucking' s in the back of a rental car when your woman' s going , " come on , get some !
nobody gets you ready for that shit .
nobody tells you that once you get married , you will never get pussy again .
if you like pussy , marriage ain' t for you .
i haven' t had pussy in seven years .
i' ve had vagina .
i hate vagina .
i came out of a vagina .
as soon as i got out , i said , " man , i got to get me some pussy .
see , they don' t prepare you .
they don' t tell you married women don' t have pussies .
married women have vaginas .
if you go to a wedding and the woman' s throwing the bouquet , she ain' t throwing the bouquet , she' s throwing the pussy .
i won' t be needin ' this no more .
and the woman that catches it is gonna get married cos now she got two pussies .
you gotta marry the two pussy girl .
but it ain' t just men that lose out on marriage .
women , you lose out too .
women , once you get married , he will never lick your pussy again .
pussy , vagina , whatever the fuck you wanna call it .
he will never lick it again .
i see some married women with tears in they eyes right now .
he will never lick your pussy again .
forever ever .
forever ever ? " forever ever .
he will never lick your pussy again .
that' s right .
don' t get me wrong , he' il give it one coat .
but he ain' t gonna put the finish on it like he used to .
he used to put a spit shine on your pussy .
you had to put on shades just to look at your pussy .
put a little sticker next to your pussy
objects in pussy may appear closer than they actually are .
nobody gets you ready for this shit .
that' s right , fellas , once you get married , no more blow jobs .
if you like blow jobs , marriage ain' t for you .
i haven' t had a blow job in seven years .
i' ve had fellatio .
when you' re single , you get the best blow jobs in the world , 8 , 12 , 15 minutes straight
like the girl' s auditioning on your dick , like she' s giving your dick a second opinion ,
like she' s going for her scuba licence .
you get married , every married man i know gets the same lazy ass blow job .
it' s like three licks .
is it hard ?
put it in .
i gotta fold these clothes .
what kind of lazy ass blow job is this shit ?
if we was at a restaurant i would send it back .
waiter , this blow job ain' t ready yet .
yo , marriage is tough , man .
marriage is real fucking tough .
marriage is so tough , nelson mandela got a divorce .
nelson mandela got a fucking divorce .
nelson mandela spent 27 years in a south african prison , got beaten and tortured every day for 27 years , and did it with no fucking problems .
made to do hard labour in 100 degree south african heat for 27 years , and did it with no problems .
he got out of jail , after 27 years of torture , spent six months with his wife and said ,
i can' t take this shit no more !
i' m outta here .
y' all take care .
thank you !
best show ever .
it was hilarious .
once you get married , life is over .
no more blow jobs !
i' m telling you , don' t get married .
i' il come and see him again .
my dimples hurt , i laughed so hard .
see ?
i just pissed on myself .
what a great show !
that was great .
i really enjoyed it , it was wonderful .
great show .
english
