= ***** = created by cyberblade
no matter how busy he got , he always find time for his animals my name is brandy
i am an astray ? that' s ok .
we' re all astray
i know the first' s gonna take you time one part a time never ever give up hope not just brandy , and all you dogs
listen to me every dog in here is gonna find a family and be somebody' s best friend
let me hear you say that say i' m somebody' s best friend
i' m somebody' s best friend one more time again
i' m somebody' s best friend
i' m somebody' s best friend that' s right there' s also at the north beach who' s trying to find a good watchdog to prevent housebreaking and great with kids you guys got a background in security ? that' il be rusty he wants to be a watchdog who' s rusty
rusty , oh no it' s better be important
i say must learn to lick ass every zoo in the country got a job for the doc how long ago did you guys make a little turtle ? not that long , maybe 20 years gonna be 40 years next monday
i see what the problem is
i' m gonna give you this pill
i want you to crush it up and put it in as food what did they do ?
you' re looking fine
i' m coming at you there we give an international celebrity traveling from alaska to australia
i' m here with the world famous dr. dolittle who actually speaks with animals what' re we gonna do ? we sneak up on this unsuspected alligator we better be quiet or he' il know we' re here the trick to catch it is to wear teeth this big
when he catches me
i' m gonna bite his hands off
i think he knows . . .
it seems every wants to be a patient of a good doctor his family understood most families did right now i gotta answer the door who' s there ? it' s me .
i forgot my key , open up
i guess you gotta beg come on boy , beg role reversal usually it' s human you better open up just open the door since you' re the one who feeds me
i' m gonna let you in this time
guess who' s back from france
i got you from paris it' s for me
i can enjoy this present as well you know what' il be a really nice present ? it' s you keep that flock off
i got you a present from mexico can i see it ?
don' t shake .
91 1 don' t shake it' s a camellia .
it can change colors the black master is in the house
i' m gonna disappear for a while now you see me .
now you don' t am i gone ?
am i not invisible ? you remember cherry' s birthday ? sure i do .
you remember to get the cake from stancy ? actually cherry doesn' t wanna have a family party we always celebrate together get this thing off she got a date a date with who ?
i didn' t ask .
she is a big girl now we' il see a out this dating where' s the birthday anyway ? she is unreachable what do you mean ?
where is she ? she is her room with the dog and the earphones on you can try paging her she is unreachable in my house and i have to page her ? see who am i gonna page ?
be careful doc she is 1 6 open the door can you believe it ? try your cell
i' m not trying to call her on the cell phone while she in her bedroom
open the door ok alright
doesn' t i teenager get the right to drive and drink ?
what' re you drinking ? give it to me
gaedali make wine now ? you better slow down which one is dolittle what now ?
i have a message from the boss from the who ? the boss save the question come with me you guys know the rules don' t just come up here without an appointment make an appointment now go tell the beaver make an appointment just like everyboby else
i can' t turn there .
i' m not with the fishes how' s going to look in the paper ? doctor dolittle go past the roof that' s not right now leave cos i' il watch your tone buddy
talk this is your daddy .
how are you ?
i got a question for you why am i on the outside talking to you on the cell phone ?
what am i doing ? it' s the only way to reach you what are you doing here ? what' s all this about ?
dance of course that' s not dance that' s advertise you don' t wanna spend your birthday with your family ?
i had to have dinner when i was younger now i' m turning 1 6 besides i have a date you can bring him here cos you' re having dinner here my parents and my little sister are gonna join us on our date ? you' re joining us .
we have it every year what' s this ? that' s private
i can see why it' s private it' s embarrassing since you got 2 cs and a d on here you should be the last person talking about being embarrassing what are you talking about ? what is it supposed to mean
you mean i should my work and everything is it what you mean being embarrassing ? it' s not going to happen that' s right .
you' re going to dinner no cell phone for a week what am i supposed to do without my cell phone ? you cab learn to write some letters
look at me don' t i look like care ?
this is unbelievable she has 50 numbers none of them is mine you shouldn' t be looking at it why not ?
who the hell is biggie mac ?
i don' t know
i' m gonna find out
i don' t like that name what the hell kinda name is that ?
what is that ? max' s cell phone ?
when did he get a cell phone ?
i' m asking a question , punk it' s none of your damn business it' s my business to find out how old you are are you threatening me ? no but i' m coming to you whenever . . .
i' m so sorry that' s a wrong number that was an old man on the cell phone
i wish i could say the same thing about you the door go get the door
doctor d , what' s up ?
it' s me me who is me ?
back off me you don' t know me ? doctor d , what is going on ?
you deliver pizza ?
i forgot to give you a tip i' m sorry it' s cool you do don' t have to give a petty tip
this is your date ? this is eric
eric this is my dad my man , what' s up ?
we need to stay to have family dinner this is cool with me don' t be like that you' re gonna ruin the dinner for everybody don' t worry
i know how to take of it pup ?
charliz always has a mind of her own a year and a half she decided not to wear diapers anymore , remember that ? then she started to make messes around the house
it' s cool i can actually learn something you' re really something ? cos you' ve never to take off your hat at the dinner table is your head being hot or what ?
1 6 just think in 2 years she is out of the house and on her way to college one year and 1 0 months 1 6 days
berkeley is a close college if you go there , you can live at home and save some money that' s a good idea but i already reserved a college when i graduate from high school you reserved already ? someone to see you
excuse me darling
i love you too
you down here what do you want ? first of all let me beaver wants to sent a birthday greeting to your loving daughter that' s very nice you go tell beaver start getting out of my nerves he only wants some moment of your time what if i say no
i think you need to go in that room you go tell the beaver be in my office 8 o' clock tomorrow he knows you' re busy but this is really a matter of life or death situation in my car , 7 am .
alright ? this is good news the beaver likes good news
jimmy , get the car
blow the candles and make a wish
surprise
give me that
i' m gonna eat that you lick my fat bump don' t be a pig we' re trying to do something nice to your daughter
you' re not 2 little cute kitties you' re just 2 disgusting rats no , we are not you just ruined the birthday cake if you write backward of rats it' s stars
i' m your star you know hospital backward ? yes it is
diapers ! my favorite , chocolate say miya what do you think you' re doing ?
i think he' s about to say something bring me a bone bring me a large plate of flies super size you' il bring me ham
can i talk to charliz a second ?
i' m sorry about tonight
i' m thinking about cutting a little work and spend more time with you guys great more animals will be here what if we don' t stay here what about a big vacation in europe the whole family ? are you serious ?
we' re going to paris , rome , greeks just do it what do you think ? is it a bribe ? yes , it' s a bribe it' s working yo doc , one more thing i forgot to tell you tomorrow
tomorrow , we' re going to europe
so the raccoon and the parcel take the road trip to meet the beaver nice wheel , what do you call this thing ? this is a mustang any car that' s named after me ?
i' m gonna be go over a couple of rules rule number 1 , no sudden movement number 2 , do not stare at his teeth he' s got a little rodent bite
i think he needs bracing but i' m not a dentist number 3 to 1 0 show with respect he deserves we' re talking about the beaver , right ? how' re you doing ? how' s the hanging ? back away show some respect to it the raccoon got a doctor it' s a miracle
doctor dolittle i presume welcome to my bed do you like a fish on , i' ve eaten already when the beaver offers you a fish you just take the fish shut up sorry boss
i read some of the good things of your bay area family bay area family what are you guys some mafia or something ? we don' t know anything about mafia
i' ve never heard of it that' s myth
i' m just a simple fisherman
i' il only be blessed to make friends you' d be one what you guys from me ?
i' m losing my territory are other animals moving in on you or something ? the human kind .
they' re cutting down our homes busting our families we hear they' re cutting down the whole forest you' re talking to the wrong person you gotta contact the nature groups like that has to be you you are the only one who know how to speak human we can' t fight humans on my own they got guns , knives and pull out couches sure i got rabies , i can bite but i really can' t do so much you guys have no idea what i' m talking about , do you ? it' s human against nature but with you on our side that' d be nice me on your side , i didn' t say i was gonna help you
i didn' t say it before you say no
i' d like you to see what we' re talking about
it' s gone everything gone
how do you save the forest anyway ? it' s not gonna be easy
i assume the lumber companies have a lot of crowd but i do know a few endangered species living in the forest who definitely have lost the protective how am i gonna find how many endangered animals living in the forest you can ask eugine we find the endangered species the females killed by the poachers it' s the only western pacific bear at least one bear has to be protected , right ?
let the lawyer of the logging company argue this since she is the only up there there' s no chance for survival anyway there had to be a male too so we get a male up there and let them together
let nature take its course the only male western pacific bear we can find is raised in captivity never has a bear raised in captivity been successfully reintroduced to the wild they never have a world famous doctor make an introduction your man left the button open something wrong ?
i hope he didn' t see it
i know you' re really disappointed disappointed ? about not going to europe ? why' d i be disappointed ?
i made you a promise and i' m gonna stick to it you don' t want me to it
i understand if i say no .
i' il regret for the rest of my life when do we leave ? as soon as we get the court order to stop the tree cutting who is going to argue the case ?
why are you looking around ? me ? not me , you
for the animals
i don' t do the animals you are a speciest we' re asking for an injunction so that we might the chance to save the species this is a delaying tactic a publicity stunt
i have an afidavit signed a range of experts who' il take them a bear raised in captivity is reintroduced to the wild it' s dangerous and irresponsible simply raised by a circus who don' t know how to feed
let alone let it through its first winter it ' il certainly succumb to darwin' s law of nature survival of the fittest but darwin never met my dad young lady , that' s inappropriate behavior who' s your father ? it' s me .
i' m her father my name is dolittle doctor dolittle do you feel you can rehabilitate and make it in the wild for the female ? yes i do in that case i' il delay one month
one month , that' s it if that bear is capsized in this month
i' il dismiss the order
i understand completely thank you your honor
you can speak with the wild animals and the circus bears ?
i don' t know much about it
i only know it' s living in captivity
i bet they' il be happy to return to the wild
so much for a family vacation can doctor figure how much it' s gonna be ? that' s before he met acher
you know what i' m talking about ? no , listen . you' il be lucky winning somebody like her
i' ve had so many girlfriends
i never have a girlfriend just bring her by on monday
i can' t her here you have to go to her go to her , where ? she is in the forest
i don' t play in the forest do you what kind of beer you are ?
i' m a singer , dancer you' re an endangered species is that a threat ?
cos my lawyer . . . you' re a very rare bear .
you' re called the western pacific bear
i know i can play any bears western , polar
i' m freezing your ancestors came from the mountain of california when you were 6 months they took you from your mother they taught how to dance according to a hound dog
i taught myself that cos i' m a panda bear yes funny stuff what i' m proposing to you is
i' d like you back to your ancestors ' room and teach you to be a real bear
i like the bear i' m ...
i' m famous do you have a gift shop ?
i have my own baby you do this i promise you' il be the most famous bear in the world famous that pooh are you kidding me ? you pull this off and you' re saying
winnie the who ? you got yourself a bear ? and what' s the most unusual story of the year doctor dolittle is going to rewrite the law of nature by tempting to reintroduce a performing bear into the wild and in doing do hoped to save an entire force from destruction it' s darwin versus dolittle get over yourself
i got 2 lumber millers waiting for that wood
i understand but it' s complicated especially if that bear survives you' re the one who' s going to be endangered that bear is bound to screw up when he does , have yourselves a little toy
i have just the place to put it
so we' re going to the forest waiting for acher to arrive when the family' s settled
i' m starting to look for mount number one
looks like a good place simple pleasure that woof is a fox
you like that there' s more where i came from
what is that ? some kinda secret lady dog' s code you like me ? this is called back scratching
where are you going ? call me so the big day finally came
i have a feeling the fur is gonna fly you all know why we' re here we' re about to do something we' ve never done before everyone thinks we can' t pull this off they got their blaze sharpened truck ready to roll we' re going to prove them wrong , right ?
i want everybody to put their claw together how about an applause for the bear who is going to leave ?
are you going to save the forest ? reach further is it some kinda joke ?
i wanna go serious on you for a second
i got my work cut out but with your help i know . . . one thing
the show is over you got your work cut out for you pal ok i' m done .
turn it off
it' s so dirty yes , it' s a shit hole is that her ? she is a babe
look at the way she walks
i love her wet
i' m going over to introduce you you just wait here tell her i really her fat pouch but don' t be cruel
i' il try to work that
are you coming over here ?
i' m real busy foraging my name is john
i' m eva that' s a pretty name nice to meet you a quick question how would you like to meet your man of dream ? you' re real cute but i don' t go for the other species
i' m not talking about man
i' m talking about a male bear how would you like to meet the big magnificent male over there
i don' t think i see him is he standing behind that tree ?
let me explain what' s going on there' s a logging company that' s trying to tear down this forest the only i can stop is
i bring 2 western pacific bear together you' re a western pacific bear so is he if i can the 2 of you together and you make a little western pacific bear you see where i' m going ?
hey acher come over here
i think we can work it out what do i say to her ? tell her a little more about yourself tell her a little more about yourself
i like walking on the beach and sharing pop corns with someone and also the sound of back street boys you' re weird weird ?
isn' t sexy
why don' t you let me take it from here
what do you think of acher , cute ? don' t make me eat you
i know he' s a little uncomfortable with female around that' s not even the point
i need a real bear someone who can hunt and provide for me
i' m already involved with someone you have a bear friend already are you in love with this bear my cousin married for love but she know her husband has another in the north so you' re not in love so let' s make a deal in one month' s time , i' m going to turn that bear into someone you' il be proud to have little baby bears of
perfect night so you' re just breathing the country air and listening to the crickets chirping ?
you know what the crickets are saying ?
i don' t know .
you' re the one who speaks to the animals a monkey don' t come to me asking for malt of 40 ounce
i can' t do that i stay in the room you ever seen me talk to an animal ? slow down a little the crickets are the human temperature you can tell how colder it is the faster they' re chirping
it seems a little colder
what' s up baby ?
maybe you should tell me what' s up
i' m gonna stay a couple of days if it is cool what is that you don' t understand ? his bag he' s staying for a couple of nights mama said so you' re gonna sleep on the sleeping bag on the floor by the way i' m watching you not just me i got all the eyes all around the woods you know i talk to birds , right ? you watch your back
i' m watching you
can we see what else is on ? no you gotta watch this and learn how to survive in the winter what' s he doing ?
digging ? you don' t even know what sharp claws are for ?
bears' re excellent swimmers not this bear you' re not just sitting there telling me you can' t swim haven' t you ever heard there is a new invention called boat tomorrow we' re gonna get up at the crack of dawn
i' m gonna teach you how to fish and so began the bearathon the training is so unbearable so hairy .
ok , that' s all this might be full of fish .
let' s go so are lobsters
look at the water that' s where the fish is there' s one touched me
i want you to put your head down and grab a fish
i want you to do just like what you saw on tv put your head under the water and catch a fish
i' m here with you .
go under water
i' m trying
that' s achder what' s up ?
you get one
i can' t breathe
tell me how smart you can be to lift your head out of the water when you can' t breathe ?
i saw a light it was beautiful
let me take you for a swim that' il sharpen you up we' re gonna find something you can catch
i saw my grandmum
come on eat
am i close ? cold and the force colder ?
warmer attic how is going ? it' s going great .
we bare need 3 weeks he' s already foraging grapes
i can' t see why he' s walking away he' s circling the grapes why ?
are they dangerous grapes ? grapes are not dangerous ?
he' s doing great .
we' re right on schedule
explain it to me again
i' m going to crawl into a dark space and sleep for 6 months it' s called hyphenation it sounds depressing how do i eat ? you eat a lotta enough and last the whole winter where is the bathroom ?
a week before you start hyphenating you eat dirt , moss , hair and green glass
it blocks my butt ?
you want me to sleep for 6 months with a big cork in my butt
come back here see ya
i' il leak the gas and sleep in the back with the kids this isn' t gonna work
i almost drowned
evy doesn' t like me
i' m sick and tired of your complaints
look up at the tree , what do you see ? a bird a bird and its home and below is a squirrel down is a little rabbit in his home all these animals are depending on you you can do it .
just listen to your inner bear just trust him he' il tell you what to do
is it really necessary ?
go in there why ? there' re a couple of bears inside who want to meet you
do i hear someone talking these kids today have no respect
i think he needs us to teach him a lesson get over here i' m gonna give you a bear hug actaully it' s going quite well
looks like everybody like music
while the cats are away , the mouse will play
i mean teenagers
you gotta a cover there is something i' ve been meaning to do since i gotta here what is that ?
your plan worked out the drink is on me mean while the doc' s giving acher a lesson could you leave a little for me cos technically it belongs . . . just a thought what' s going here ?
you don' t have to put up with that , get out of here that' s one hot fox don' t you know every female is looking for the strongest female what about personality ?
i' d rather die a virgin alpha male is the boss .
it is the boss male alpha male should learn how to walk
like an alpha male walk the walk
it' s about power unchecked , uncompromise
didn' t i ask you to line the garbage pales you line them you damn self what ?
i was talking with the animals
i' m on my way .
i' m going to get food right here go i' m going ? where' re you going ? talk the talk . shut up you telling me to shut up ?
i am talking to the animals
i' m going to get the food
sure you don' t want this thing ?
i have a question you say you' il spend your whole life in show business when is it gonna be a big finish ?
i mean in life who do you share your success with ? your hopes , dreams , fear and failure
sometimes i' m lonely
i' ve never been in love this is your chance
i think evy really likes you did she say something ? you gotta read between the line she loves me ?
i knew it you shouldn' t be carried away
i think it' s the mushroom cos you' ve eaten a whole bag tomorrow you' re gonna see a brand new bear
i think i' il call it a night it' s a little scary out here can you stay until i fall asleep
i' il wait until you fall asleep can you leave a light on ?
the light stays on keep this here
it' s a new acher in town
feel windy feel the muscle cramp
don' t quit my butt stinks can you rub my butt , please
doc finally realized he wasn' t able to make
acher fast enough to impress evy maybe he can make him sweater how can anybody be so beautiful why don' t you go over and tell her ?
that' s sunny , her little bear friend don' t get discouraged you can win her over you just figure out what she likes
let' s take my wife . .
i' m sorry she likes to be surprised
like jumping out of the bushes and sreaming ?
do something romantic say i' m thinking about you all the time you' re always on my mind you say that all the time ?
i used to
lately i' m caught up in this
i think i need a little practice
what are you doing ?
it' s all about you tonight
i sent the children up to the movies and the bears camping in the woods
you can see me
i' m blending , getting interwoven . . .
i can give you some pointer
where were we ? you were thinking about the candles and some wine would up make for annoying me for the last few days
i know something that' il be able to resist
is it our wedding song ? that' s not fair show is about to start what show ?
he is good he scratched my belly the other day what' s going on ? he is truly in love with her give her some garbage chicks like garbage
get out of here all of you this is really helpful
i' m learning a lot , truly we' il discuss tomorrow you' re gonna discuss what tomorrow ?
why don' t you sit on the couch ?
what she said doc ? she said she loves me so much that i can sleep on the couch
i' m a man on the couch
romeo is on the move
there he goes
i was only going to the bathroom you can hold it
what' s wrong with your voice ?
why don' t you put some sugar in . . .
is that our song ?
you should learn to climb trees that' s a bruise come on out of there never
i' m sure it wasn' t that bad
i understand .
we can fix it we just need to work a little harder we' re staying here we' il make our own bear suit cos we were wondering it' d be alright if every animal in the entire forest is going to stay with you next week ?
i want you to come out right now who are you calling a coward ? you' re a big coward for a quit like this my wife and my daughters are mad at me
i' m spending my vacation with a pizza boy now listening to you furry cry baby telling me it' s too hard
evy laughed at me she is even better than a coward like you
i didn' t poke a bear
i' m warning
i' m poking you stop it
that was good , bear like you just take your ass back to the circus
i' m an alpha bear
there was love in the air be a man
now you listen to me you' re in my house now
you wanna go out with me tonight ? what you think you' re doing ?
i' m not doing anything
you marked my tree
i don' t even know what those words mean
i drink a lot of water it smells like lemonade
it smells like anomia
i' m getting dizzy
let' s beat it what' re you doing ? we' re having fun you make a very handsome couple
i hate myself
if you want it i' il go up don' t even think about it
i' m gonna go get it for you it' s too dangerous .
promise me
i like you too what' re you girls doing over here ? beat it , circus boy your charm is matched only by your odor
what' s he saying ?
i' m confused
you think you get used to it ?
maybe you' il be better being with me don' t do worse you' il only be a city bear i need more than that
shall we put our cards on the table ?
this bear you brought up here is much likely to have little bear babies it ain' t gonna happen
here' s my offer
i' il set aside 1 0 acres turning it into a sanctuary you can bring your animal buddies there
that' s the offer the dead line is wednesday 1 2 noon
let me be clear it' s 1 2 : 01 we' il be sending every piece of equipment we got .
by friday there won' t be a tree standing there
i need to run this by my wife there' s a pay phone in the back
phone the wife always a sign of weakness
i know what to do i got my thing finished
i gotta tell you this thing is over sorry to drag you in all of this might as well give you an audition in vegas cos these guys offered me a deal this is the best i can do the best you can do is not give up on me you told me , listen to your inner bear
i know how i can win evy
i know i' m dumb or something
i' m giving you one more chance
the ice cream is acting up
i got depressed by sunny and eva
i realized i' m in love with eva
don' t you dare throw up on me it' s gonna come out you gotta sit down on the toilet you gotta lift it up first
i' m gonna keep guard you just sit there
i' il meet you one second
i gotta take care of some business what are you talking in there ?
i was talking to myself
i gotta . . . sometimes i gotta coax it down you must have some little pet talk
let me get the window open
it' s worse than i thought
you just ate ice cream ? that' s not ice cream
no deal .
thanks for your time
was that me ?
i' m trying to blend
your mother is little worried
i knew something was bothering you tell me daughter to daddy you wanna cry , we cry together nothing stop it must be the mountain messing me up i' m fine you sure you' re alright
take your time i' m in the house
talking time' s done it' s time to be bold he' s going up to the high
this cliff is higher than i remember
you come back here .
get back
i' m doing it or die what are you doing here ?
i' m not gonna win eva by eating a bunch of worms
i need to show her how much she means to me if you fall you' re just stupid
circus boy got a little trick it' s not gonna hold
i' il buy you the honey break
i want you to come down
i' m fine there' re bees don' t move they' re sting me
protect the hive
jump circus boy go eat the salmon
why' d you do something like that are you crazy ?
i could have got that hive if i wanted it we' re not working out take a hike
i mean would you like more honey ?
you' re ready to talk about presuming the species we could talk or you count to a hundred and cone to get me
focus
i should really in the open
pace yourself not so fast
daddy is back
what happened ?
it' s acher folks we got a wild animal coming through
i' m doctor dolittle what happened ? he broke down the back door we found him ransacking in the kitten
let' s move up show is over it' s me what happened ?
i was so close they came out of no where are you ready to save the forest ?
we' re setting aside 1 0 acres of the forest we cal it doctor wild life sanctuary speak of the devil you think you' ve won but you haven' t
thanks very much .
that' s all for today
we only have an eyewitness did anybody see what happened ? we got one problem it' s a freaking weasel what did he do ?
weasel , the doctor is here
did you see what happen to the bear ?
you give me your watch i' il tell you what you need to know you' re such a weasel
an animal ?
you can' t offer them evidence you got a better idea ?
i' il stall the trial maybe we hire a private investigator they' re going to take acher to mexico if you go on the witness stand
riley is going to tear you to shreds what do i have to lose ? your reputation
i' m not giving up these animals easy
we admit it was a setback but we' d like one more week to rehabitate the bear
what if i could prove the entire thing is a setup ?
that' d be a very serious allegation do you intend to present the evidence ? we have an eyewitness can i address to the court just a minute ?
we have an eyewitness who can testify he heard the gunshot and a truck back to the area is that witness here in the court ? it' s not in the court cos he' s . . .
he' s a weasel
i know this seems very unreasonable
i can talk to animals this did come forward
i have no problem doctor dolittle to question the witness
i' d like a brief recess so that i' il have an opportunity to get a camera to have a snapshot if he needs immunity we can provide animal protection
i' d not allow you to make a mockery in my courtroom the deadline has passed the motion to delay is denied that' s a shame
could you tell us what the weasel wanted to say ?
you come to get me out ?
what do you mean sort of ?
i couldn' t prove your story they what ?
they think you' d be too dangerous to be set free
they sold you to a mexican circus
everything .
i dragged you out and put you through all this stuff
like i' ve ruined your life you gave me a life you even taught me about love no one can ever take that away from me
mama wanted me to tell you that the appeal' s been denied
you' re back to your show business
i just want eva maybe i wasn' t meant to be loved everybody is meant to be loved
since when ? a couple of weeks ago at first i was kinda fuzzy now i' m really clear this is what you' ve been keeping from us right ? don' t say anything cos i don' t want to be a freak you' re not gonna be a freak when it started to happen to me
i got scared too this is a good thing
now i know what i' ve been missing a family .
i guess it' s something i' il never have you gotta help him isn' t there something that we can do ?
not just him i mean all the animal so many of them
there are so many of them
you guys have given up haven' t you ? what am i gonna do , i' m 6 years old
i am not a young beaver no more beside , we' ve been living in this forest how long ? about 1 00 years we' ve been shacking in the forest
i can' t do this by myself you guys wanna save your home you gotta help me whether you' il believe it you guys have untapped power
you got a heart of the lion or just strong like an ox eyes like an eagle movement swift like a gazette or you stink like a skunk sorry , i' m trying to make my point here what i' m trying to say is we can do this just don' t do it without a fight
listen don' t stall with me everybody take your position
roll them up
i have never seen anything like this before none of them' re having milk
what' s wrong ? strike
go get the fribee
strike
all the animals are working together you' il be out of here in no time animals can' t organize you may want to take a look at this yourself
maybe you should talk to dolittle giving in to a bunch of beasts lowering our life form ?
i can take democrats
i can take animals
retreat organized
i heard something
don' t make any move
you locked the door
i think you should run
i' m an attorney .
i' m not with him
i' m sure we can work something out
i' m gonna call doctor dolittle no sudden move or i' m gonna bite you
mr , potter , how are you sir ?
i' m here with a couple of your friends
i don' t think you believe animals' d organize
i don' t know what to think anymore
i' il be happy to set up a meeting with you and the animals so that we can work out our problem it' s the only way for you to admit so you won' t look like an idiot just call them off put the raccoon on the phone he wants to speak to you make it short
i got it all under control
i' il call you back
i' m here only a mediator this negotiation is between mr potter the representatives of the local wildlife this is my new proposal what kind of territory we' re looking at only 1 2 acres here
they like it
i' il give you something you like
like this
meanwhile the strike kept rolling even the pros' re getting in on the act
no , no . we won' t go you try running a mile
i don' t feel like jumping any hoops today
hope you' il fill in there
give me a bear hug you' re not leaving here until you get a bear hug just a little one
you crushed my spine
drive safe now
are you in there ?
i just stopped by to say hello thanks for everything
acher , i' m ready she is in heat gotta go save the species
it' s quite a summer
what are you doing here ?
charliz and the doc were closer than ever
you' il blend trust me
look at me i' m blending again right you' re invisible good job they doubt the black master is back
i' m king of the third world
but the best news of all came the following spring
step , step turn kick step
i thought it was step kick turn step , step
i thought you' ve retired .
ok , from the chorus
