our world has gone now .
smashed by the wars .
now i am the keeper of his body , bound here in the egyptian ways ,
i followed him as pharaoh , and have now ruled 40 years .
i am the victor .
but what does it all mean ?
when there is no one left to remember ,
the great cavalry charge of gaugamela , or the mountains of the hindu kush ,
when we crossed the 100, 000 man army into india .
he was a god , cadmos or as close as anything i' ve ever seen .
tyrant ! " they yelled so easily , i laugh .
no tyrant ever gave back so much .
and what do they know of the world , these school boys ? it takes strong man to rule .
alexander was more , he was prometheus , a friend to man ,
he changed the world , before him , there were tribes , and after him , .. .. all was possible .
there was suddenly a sense the world could be ruled by one king , ... be better for all .
18 great alexandrias he built , it was an empire not of land and gold , .. .. but of the mind .
hellenic civilization .
open .
to all !
how can i say it ?
how can i tell you what it is like to be young ?
to dream , big dreams , .. to believe when alexander looked you in the eye ,
you could do anything .
anything !
in his presence , by the light of apollo , we were better than ourselves .
truly , i' ve known many great men in my life , but only one colossus ,
and only now in old do i understand who this force of nature really was .
or do i ?
did such a man as alexander exist ?
of course not , they idolize him , make him better than he was .
men , all men reach and fall , reach and fall .
the east , the vast persian empire , ruled almost all the known world .
the west , once great greek city states ,
thebes , athens , sparta , had fallen from pride .
for a hundred years now , the persian kings had bribed the greeks with their gold ,
to fight as mercenaries , it was philip , the one eyed , that changed all this .
uniting tribes of illiterate sheep herders , from the high and low lands ,
with his blood and guts , he built a professional army ,
brought the devious greeks to their knees .
he then turned his eye on persia , where it was said the new , great king darius himself , on his throne in babylon , feared philip .
it was from these loins of war , that alexander was born , in pella .
pella macedonia
some called his mother , queen olympias , a sorceress , and said that alexander was the child of dionysus , .. .. others , zeus .
but truly , there was not a man in macedonia who didn' t look at father and son , side by side , and wonder .
trust the ones who give you love
life has just begun , son .
her skin is water , her tongue is fire .
she' s your friend
take it ,
if you hesitate she will strike ,
remember that , never hesitate .
yes , they are like people , you can love them for years , feed them , nurture them , but still , they can turn on you .
come ...
he calls me a barbarian !
philip makes a mockery of dionysus every night !
women are the only ones who know dionysus .
my little achilles .
stay , alexander , down .
what is it you ..
6 months to this day .
no no , not here .
drop , bitch , to your king ,
king of what ?
sheepherders ?
men ?
* laughing *
i , am of achilles royal blood .
the blood of heracles runs in my veins .
your are nothing but a drunken whore .
you' re a foul mouthed tentative bitch from hades , and i curse the very name of you !
you think people respect you ?
you think they dont know your bastards ?
damn your sorceress soul !
keep him here like one of your snakes ?
i told you not !
i told you not !
you' il obey me .
i will not .
you' il obey me or i' il kill you .. with my own hands .
stop !
stop !
stop !
your majesty !
no ! .. in the name of the gods !
he will never be yours , never !
in my womb i carried my avenger .
8 years later
in the world he grew up to , i have come to believe it was in friendship , .. that alexander found his sanity .
you don' t need much to fight , when you' re in the front ranks of a battle , .. .. facing some northern barbarian tribe .
courage won' t be in the lining of your stomach , nearchus , .. .. it' s in the heart of a man !
you dont need to eat everyday ... or until you' re full , ptolemy .. .. but only to lie in bed in the morning , when you can have some good bean soup , cassander , .. .. after a force night march .
come on , alexander !
come on !
who' d ever respect you as a king ?
you think it' s because of your father ?
the first rule of war is to do what you ask your men to do : no more , no less .
that' s it , well done my student !
good wrestling !
that' s what i want ! come come come ... you did well but you lost , .. now both of you will congratulate the other .
go on !
would you want me to let you win , alexander ?
your right .
but i promise you i will beat you one day , hephaistion .
it was said later that alexander was never defeated except by hephaistion' s thighs .
although an inferior race , the persians control at least four fifths of the known world ,
but is it possible , the source of egypt' s mighty river nile , could rise in these distance mountains of the outer earth ?
if so , an experienced navigator could find his way , here , by this river east , down into the great plains of india ,
out into the eastern ocean , and into the world , and by this route , up the nile , back to egypt , into the middle sea , and home , to greece .
now if only these frogs could look outward and act on their favorite position of the center ,
greece could rule the world .
why is it master , in myth these lands you speak of are known ?
india , where heracles , and dionysus traveled .
thesius , jason , achilles , .. were victorious ?
from generation to generation their stories have been past on .
why ? .. unless there was truth to them ?
tales of amazons ?
no , alexander , only common people believe these tales . .. as they believe most anything .
we are here precisely to educate ourselves against such foolish passions .
but if we are superior to the persians as you say , why do we not rule them ?
it is , it has always been our greek dream to go east .
the east has a way of swallowing men and their dreams .
master , master ...
yes ?
master ?
out with it , out with it .
why are the persians so cruel ?
that is not the subject for today , nearchus .
but it is true , the oriental races are known for their barbarity , and their slavish devotion to their senses ,
excess in all things , is the undoing of men !
that is why we greeks are superior .
we practice control of our senses , moderation .
we hope !
and what of achilles at troy master ?
was he not excessive ?
achilles simply lacks restraint .
he dominates other men so completely , that even when he withdraws from battle , crazed with grief , .. over his dead lover patroclus , he seriously endangers his own army !
he is a deeply selfish man .
then would you say that the love between achilles and patroclus is a corrupting one ?
when men lie together in lust , it is a surrender to the passions , and does nothing for the excellence in us , .. nor does any other excess , cassander , .. jealousy among them , but when men lie together and knowledge and virtue are passed between them , that is pure , and excellent , when they compete to bring out the good , the best in each other , this is the love between men , that can build the city state and lift us from our frog pond .
philip brought such as aristotle from athens to educate our rough people , and growing more ambitious , he now planned the invasion of persia .
is that the best you can do , cleitus ?
back to the phalanx with you !
i' il ride him myself !
no one can ride that beast your majesty .
he' s been beaten far too often .
my noble king , he' s a high spirited animal , yeah ..
hlgh splrited ! .. and worthy of philip of macedon .
but for three and a half coins , .. i couldn' t possibly make a profit on him .
but for you ..
why would i want such a beast ?
i already have a wife !
do i seem so old ?
a broken neck comes free , fool .
he' s too nervous for battle .
you' il sell him for meat .
buy him for me father , i' il ride him .
and if you don' t ?
i' il pay for him myself .
with what , your singing voice ?
i' il pay you .
i tell you the horse can' t be ridden lad , his mind is broken .
he can be ridden , by me .
if you can rule that horse i' il make him yours !
at half the price .
that horse will kill him philip .
it' il break the boy in two .
really ?
perhaps you' il make a musician out of him yet .
the boy does not have the craft , philip .
he could hurt himself .
he will have to figure that out for himself .
it' s time .
you do not like your shadow .
do ya ?
it is like a dark spirit coming up sketchy ,
see ?
that' s us .
it' s just a trick of apollo' s .
he' s the god of , sun .
but i' il show you how to outwit him , .. you and me together .
bucephalus .
that is what i' il call you , .. strong and stubborn .
bucephalus and alexander .
come now , let' s ride together .
ahhhh , he' s got some tight in ' em yet !
attalus , cleitus , for zeus' s sake , he beat ya man !
now bucephalus , show them .
my son , my son !
you remember achilles ?
he is my favorite .
why ?
because he loved patroclus and avenged his death .
and his fate ?
that he must die young , but with great glory .
did he have a choice ?
oh yes : to live a long life , but there would be no glory .
you dream of glory alexander , your mother encourages you .
there is no glory with out suffering , and this she will not allow .
one day i will be on walls like these .
prometheus stole the secret of fire and gave it to man ,
made zeus so angry , he chained prometheus to a rock in the great caucasas , and each day , his eagle pecked out the poor man' s liver , each night it grew back again , so that it could be eaten the next day , miserable fate .
why ?
who knows these things , anyway ,
oedipus , tore out his eyes ,
he found out , he' d murdered his father , and married his mother , knowledge that came too late ,
medea .
she slaughtered her two children in vengeance ,
when jason left her for a younger wife .
my mother would never hurt me .
never easy to escape our mothers alexander ,
all your life , beware of women .
they' re far more dangerous than men .
heracles , even after he accomplished his 12 labors ,
he was punished with madness , slaughtered his 3 children
poor heracles .
great heracles .
all greatness comes from loss .
even you , the gods will one day judge harshly .
when i' m king like you one day father .
don' t rush the day boy .
you risk all !
my father threw me into battle before i knew how to fight .
when i' d killed my first man he said " now you know
i hated him then ,
but i understand why now .
a king isn' t born alexander ,
he is made ... by stealing , by suffering ,
a king must know how to hurt those he loves .
it is lonely .
ask heracles . ask any of them !
fate is cruel .
no man or woman could be too powerful or too beautiful , without disaster befalling .
they laugh when you rise too high , .. crush everything you built with the wind .
the glory they give , in the end .. they take away .
they make of us slaves .
8 years later
pregnant .
so soon !
the little whore ..
you will marry her in the spring , during dionysus ' festival ,
and when her first son is born , her sweet uncle attalus ,
will convince philip to name the boy , his successor ,
with himself as regent .
and you , you will be sent on some impossible mission ,
against some monstrous northern tribe , to be mutilated .
in one more meaningless battle over cattle .
and i , no longer queen , will be put to death with your sister ,
and the remaining members of our family .
i wish , sometimes you could see the light mother .
the truth is , he' s taken nothing from you that you have not been long without .
the only way is to strike .
announce your marriage to a macedonian , now .
beget a child of pure blood , he would be one of them , not mine ,
and he would have no choice but to make you king , .. there is still kynnane .
eurydice was perfect .
if your father , that pig had not ravaged her first !
say nothing more of my father !
do you hear me ?
say nothing .
your right , forgive me , a mother loves too much .
who shall i sing to sleep at night anymore ?
i wish , i wish we could spend more time together ,
like we used to , when you were the sweetest boy .
there' s never been time mother , since i was a child , i have been groomed to be ever the best .
aaw my poor child , like achilles , cursed by your greatness .
take my strength .
you must never confuse your feelings with your duties , alexander .
a king must make public gestures for the common people .
i know , but you will be 19 this summer , and the girls already say you dont like them ,
you like hephaistion more ,
i understand it is natural for a young man ,
but if you go to asia with out leaving your successor you risk all .
hephaistion loves me , .. as i am , not who .
loves ?
loves ?
in the name of dionysus , ... understand how philip thinks .
for your own sake .
your life hangs in the balance , .. his spies are inside your closest ...
stop !
i am his only worthy son , you crazed woman , he would never hurt me ,
even if eurydice had a boy , he' d be 20 before he would let him rule .
yes , and you would be 40 , old and wise , like parmenion , and philip' s young son would be 20 ,
like you , now .
but raised by him .
his blood .
he will never give you the throne now , alexander .
never .
ahhh , come alexander drink this sadness away !
it' s only thirst can quench sorrow , ptolemy .
there is only one thing better than winning a battle son , .. and that' s the taste of a new woman .
you' il find it far sweeter than self pity .
pausianas , you bore me .
alexander , alexander i' ve found you the right girl .
what' s your name ?
antigone .
huh , what' s your name ?
antigone .
i love you my lil ' imp !
and i love you cleitus .
would you prefer a seat , cleitus ?
i' il sleep in my grave , hephaistion .
i prefer dancing !
a toast ! a toast !
i drink to our great friends and to our new union ,
macedonia and greece !
equals in greatness !
to philip our king ! without whom this union could not be possible .
come , attalus !
leave some damn air in the hall !
and last i drink to the king' s marriage .. to my niece , eurydice .
a macedonian queen we can be proud of !
to philip and eurydice , and to their legitimate sons !
you son of a dog , come then !
this is my wedding not some public brawl !
apologize by zeus before you dishonor me .
you defend the man who called my mother a whore and me a bastard ! .. and i dishonor you ?
ah !
you listen like your mother !
attalus is my family now , the same as you .
then choose your relatives more carefully .
don' t expect me to sit here and watch you shame yourself .
shame ?
you insult me !
i insult you ?
am i not fit to lick the ground my mother walks on ?
you dog ! .. questioning your queen !
shame ?
i have nothing to be ashamed of you arrogant brat ,
i' il marry the girl if i want ,
and i' il have as many sons as i want and there' s nothing you or your harpy mother could do about it !
why , you drunken man , must you think everything i do and say comes from my mother ?
because i know her heart , by hera .
and i see her in your eyes .
you come at this throne too much !
now we all know that she wolf of a mother of yours wants me dead !
well you can both dream , boy !
come , philip , this is the wine talking , leave the boy !
it' il wait ' til morning .
no , i command you !
apologize to your kinsmen .
apologize !
no kinsmen to me .
goodnight old man , and when my mother re marries ,
i' il invite you to her wedding .
you bastard !
you' il obey me , come here !
and this is the man who is going to take you from greece to persia ?
he can' t even make it from one couch to the next .
get out of my palace !
you' re exiled , you bastard !
banished from the land !
you' re not welcome here !
you' re no son of mine .
everything , suddenly changed for him ,
his father , king philip , was murdered , .. and alexander 20 .. became the new ruler of macedonia .
and breaking their treaties with us , dismissing alexander as an untried boy ,
several greek city states , rose up in revolt , much to persia' s delight , and .. half sponsored by their gold .
and truly alexander could love like no other , but to betray him was to arrouse a vast and frightening anger , .. and he massacred several thousand of the men of that tragic city , thebes , and sold the survivors into slavery .
this , as intended , stunned and defeated the greeks , and though in the end he treated most populations with .. magnanimity , it is these exceptions ,
thebes , gaza in syria and later , persepholis in persia and others , .. that are always remembered by those who hate alexander and all he stood for .
at 21 , alexander invaded asia with an army of 40, 000 trained men .
and liberating one city state after the other , he conquered all of western asia , south to egypt , where he was declared pharoah of egypt , worshiped as a god .
it was in egypt that the respected oracle at siwah declared him the true son of zeus .
he finally provoked darius himself to battle in the heart of the persian empire , near babylon .
gaugamela , persia
it was mad , 40, 000 of us against 250, 000 barbarians .
it was the day alexander had waited for all his life .
alexander .
son of a god .
it was a myth of course , at least it started as a myth ,
i know , i was there , i saw his eyes .
there ... in the crack of the persian line , we' il go for the head .
kill their eyes ?
the gods have brought him to us at last !
if i die , it' s one macedonian , .. but the persians they cannot move with out darius ' command .
here , right here we cut the throat of the persian army .
this is madness , you will never get withing a hundred paces of him .
have you seen the sheer size of his force , alexander ?
not if you hold him on the left , my brave parmenion , with your son , philotas , for just one , two hours tomorrow .
and you , unbreakable antigonus .
the center phalanx .
perdiccas .
leonnatus .
nearchus .
polyperchon .
if you pin them on the walls of ursyrisus here in the center , their cavalry will follow me out to the right , .. and when bold cassander breaks , stretching their left , a hole will open ,
then i and my cavalry , our revered cleitus ,
ptolemy and hephaistion will strike through that gap , and deal the death blow to darius ' head .
alexander , even with luck , timing , the gods , we must route them tomorrow , destroy their army completely ! .. or we' il be picked apart by bandit tribes on a long journey home .
right .
you speak of home and retreat , but do you understand , parmenion , .. babylon is my new home .
alexander , if we must fight , .. do so with stealth , use your numbers well , we should attack tonight when they least expect us .
i didn' t cross asia to steal this victory , cassander .
no , you are too honorable for that ,
no doubt influenced from sleeping with tales of troy under your pillow .
but your father was no lover of homer' s .
the lands west of the euphrates handed over .
the hand of his daughter in marriage , .. since when has a greek ever been given such honors ?
this are not honors , parmenion .
they are bribes ! .. which the greeks have accepted ..
too long !
do you forget that the man who murdered my father lies across the valley floor ?
come alexander , we are still not really sure if it was persian gold behind the assassination .
your father taught you never to surrender your reason , to your passion .
now i urge you to regroup !
fall back to the coast , raise a larger force .
i would .. if i were parmenion . but i am alexander .
and no more than earth has two suns will asia bear two kings .
these are my terms , and if darius isn' t a coward who hides behind his men , .. then he will come to me tomorrow ,
and when he bows down to greece , .. alexander' il be merciful .
by aries ' chains he' s got balls , men !
and we' il give the man his due , parmenion !
.. and lads feast tonight , for tomorrow we will dine in hades .
to whom do you pray ?
phobos .
fear . .. a bad omen .
more so for darius .
i have come to believe that fear of death drives all men , hephaistion .
this we didn' t learn as school boys .
it is the cause of all our misfortunes .
so , mighty crateros !
your majesty .
are you ready for tomorrow' s dawn ?
ah , it' s been too long coming if you ask me , i mean , .. they' re skittish as colts .
good , fear makes men fight better .
post your sentries alertly , but rest them well .
don' t you worry general , i have been known to sleep with my eyes open as a baby' s arse .
only ' cause someone might steal his loot sire .
after tomorrow even the thrifty among you will shall be kings .
god be with us your majesty .
we' il stain the ground with persian blood , my king .
i' ve always believed , alexander .. .. this seems so much bigger than us .
did patroclus doubt achilles when they stood side by side at seige of troy ?
patroclus died first .
if you do , if you were to fall hephaistion , even though macedonia would lose a king ,
i will avenge you .. and follow you down to the house of death .
i would do the same .
on the eve of battle it is hardest to be alone .
then perhaps , perhaps this is farewell then , my alexander .
fear not hephaistion , we are at the beginning .
blood makes the world rise . blood makes the rain fall .
blood makes the earth grow .
in blood .. all men are born and die .
blood is the food of the gods below .
help me bucephalus , today we ride to our destiny .
neoptolemos , i remember you the day you took the seige tower at tyre .
you were a giant !
and today how will you fight ?
dexippos .
by athena , .. how far was it you threw your man wrestling at the last olympic games ?
will you match it with your spear ?
and timander , son of menander , a great soldier to my father , ... i still mourn your brother hodeus ,
who died so bravely at halicarnassus .
what an honored family you descend from timander !
you fight for them today .
you have all honored your country and your ancestors ,
and now we come to this most distant place in asia ,
where across from us
darius has at last gathered a vast army ...
but ask yourselves , who is this great king , who pays assassins in gold coins to murder my father , our king , in a most despicable , and cowardly manner , and who is this great king darius who enslaves his own men to fight ?
who is this king , but a king of air ?
these men do not fight for their homes .
they fight because this king tells them they must .
we are here today , as macedonian free men .
some of you , perhaps myself ,
will not live to see the sun set over these mountains today ,
but i say to you , what every warrior has known since the beginning of time ,
conquer your fear , and i promise you will conquer death .
you will answer , i was here this day at gaugamela , for the freedom and glory of greece !
zeus be wlth us !!
where does he go ?
don' t know majesty .
envelope him , bessos .
he makes a mistake , fadnippos .
yes , my king .
be brave men .
macedonian left ... and keep watching the calvary on the left !
pick up the pace !
prepare to repel chariots !
alexander !
go !
left turn !
father !
we must fall back to the gally , father !
hurry and get word to alexander .
move !
come macedonians !
ride !
ride !
break for the hole !
son !
go and tell alexander yourself , .. and if he won' t listen , then survive me , and avenge this betrayal .
pay attention lad , your father still watches over you !
darius !
ride your horses !
darius !
go !
go !
we can reach those mountains by sunset , .. go all night and catch darius at dawn .
provision the horses !
alexander , alexander my father is lost , .. they' ve overrun the flank and they' re into the baggage train !
parmenion' s crumbling !
ah !!!!
alexander if you chase them , you risk losing your army here .
and if we capture him we gain an empire .
you can run to the ends of the earth you coward ,
but you will never run far enough .
to parmenion !
you bleed free my lord , may i tend to your wound ?
no , hermolaos , not now .
there' s far worse than me , go to them , help them .
your majesty ,
you' re very brave .
what shall i call you ?
gloukas , my king .
gloukas .
and where is your home ?
illyria .
let your body go loose .
think of home now .
be brave again , gloukas . and you will live on in glory .
alexander .
the persian empire , the greatest the world had yet known , was destroyed .
and alexander at 25 was now king of all .
alexander once said to me , " we are most alone when we are with the myths .
babylon , persia
and thus it came to pass in a dream as mythical to all greeks as achilles defeating the trojans ,
that there is one glorious moment in time ,
alexander was loved by all .
but in the end , i believe babylon was a far easier mistress to enter , .. than she was to leave .
imagine the minds that conceived this !
with architects and engineers like these , .. we can build cities such as we only dreamed .
aristotle may have called them barbarians , but he never saw babylon !
we have enough gold here to support another three generations of macedonian armies .
macedonia would soon corrupt , cassander , .. wealth in great quantities brings the crows .
not for the men who fought i trust ?
we' il pay them well , antigonus .
but not as mercenaries for future services .
now you sound like philip .
philip never saw babylon .
no he didn' t , hefaistion .
alexander , i know you think me a stiff old sod , but , .. whatever our differences , know this day ,
your father would be very proud of you .
thank you , parmenion .
and i ask you to forgive me , my own anger .
my pride .
they too , blind me .
yes , the grandsons of goat herders , .. we now rule two million square miles .
not if we keep giving it all away !
but , none of you fear that this great fortune , .. may drive us all to destruction .
you over value us .
for as long as darius breathes , he is the legitimate king of asia , .. and i but the king of air .
but he has no power , alexander !
he' s lost in the mountains with no army .
as long as he' s lost , philotas , he can be believed in .
only when he' s found will it be decided .
it seems you' ve already made up your mind , alexander .
we must finish what we failed to do at gaugamela , parmenium .
we must hunt darius down , if it be to the ends of earth .
that was not your father' s mission .
and i am not my father .
come on , have you so quickly forgotten ?
fortune favors the bold !
by the gods !
what is this ?
a wonder darius fled , when he had this to come back to !
i venture one for every night of the year .
help me aphrodite !
how will i ever go back to lysimacheia after this ?
i advise you not to touch the anatomy .
here , i' il take care of it for you .
aristotle was , perhaps , present .
do these images fool us with their beauty and degrade our souls ?
great king alexander !
the princess of the thousand roses , and eldest daughter of the formerly great king darius .
stateira !
noble alexander .
i come to beg for the lives of my sisters , my mother , my grandmother .
you are not wrong , princess stateira .
he , too , is alexander .
please , i plead for my families lives , sell me as a slave , great king , but please ..
look now , in my eyes ,
princess , and tell me , how would you like to be treated ?
as i am , a princess .
then so be it .
you and your family shall be treated as my family .
you shall live in this palace as long as you choose ,
have you any other requests for me my noble princess ?
no , everything i wish ,
i have ...
requested .
you truly are a queen .
yes , she would be a perfect match for you , but you do nothing .
three months you have been in babylon , and leave me in pella , .. at the mercy of your enemies , of which you have many .
antipater , accustomed now to the power that you have given him ,
i must watch him grow stronger .
i am certain that he communicates secretly with parmenion , .. who is dangerous .
but beware most of all of those closest to you ,
they are like snakes and can be turned .
general crateros !
cassander is antipater' s son .
even cleitus , your fathers favorite .
and ptolemy , your friend , yes , .. but beware of men who think too much , they blind themselves .
only hephaistion do i leave out , .. but all of them you make rich , while your mother and yourself ,
you leave in generous poverty .
why won' t you ever believe me ?
it is only a dark mind like mine that can know these secrets of the heart .
for they are dark , alexander .
so dark .
but in you , .. the son of zeus , lies the light of the world !
your companions will be shadows in the underworld , .. when you are a name living forever in history , .. as the most glorious shining light of youth .
forever young .
forever inspiring !
never will there be an alexander like you ,
alexander the great !
remember , bring me to babylon as you promised .
i can only help you , for they know if they harm you , .. they will face my wrath , as queen of babylon .
it' s a high ransom she charges for nine months lodging in the womb .
bring her , alexander .
it will give her such joy !
joy ? .. and on the cracked mirror of her dreams .
stay with me tonight , hephaistion .
i' il take my own bath .
thank you , bagoas .
the generals question your obsession with darius .
they say it was never meant for you to be king of asia .
naturally .
they want only to return to their homes , rich with gold .
but i' ve seen the future , hephaistion !
i' ve seen it now a thousand times , on a thousand faces .
these people want , need change .
aristotle was wrong about them .
how so ?
look at those we have conquered .
they leave their dead unburied ,
they smash their enemies skulls and drink from it' s dust , they mate in public ,
what can they think , or sing or write , when none can read ?
but as alexander' s army they can go where they never thought possible !
they can soldier , work in the cities , the alexandrias , from egypt to the outer ocean .
we can connect these lands , hephaistion !
and the people ,
some say these alexandrias have become extensions of alexander himself ,
they draw people into the cities so as to make slaves .
but we' ve freed them , hephaistion , from the persia where everyone lived as slaves !
to free the people of the world , .. such would be beyond the glory of achilles .
beyond heracles !
a feat to rival prometheus , .. who was always a friend to man .
remember the fates of these heroes .
they suffered greatly .
oh we all suffer .
your father , mine .
they all came to the end of their time , .. and in the end , when it' s over , all that matters is what you' ve done .
you once said the fear of death drives all men ,
are there no other forces ?
is there not love in your life ?
alexander ?
i wonder sometimes , if it is not your mother you run from ,
so many years , so many miles between you ,
what is it you fear ?
who knows these things ?
when i was a child , my mother thought me devine , my father weak .
which am i , hephaistion ?
weak or divine ?
all i know is i trust only you in this world ,
i' ve missed you .
i need you .
it is you i love hephaistion , no other .
you still hold your head cocked ,
like that ,
i have stopped that .
no like a deer listening in the wind ,
you strike me still alexander .
you have eyes like no other ,
oh , i sounded stupid as school boy ,
you' re everything i care for , .. and by the sweet breath of aphrodite ,
i am so jealous of losing you to this world you want so badly .
you' il never lose me hephaistion ,
i will be with you always , until the end .
northeastern persia
the campaign in the northeast of persia .. .. turned into a hard guerilla war of almost three years .
we chased darius towards bactria , but missed taking him by hours .
he was dying when we found him sire ,
he asked for water , he drank and died .
the great king darius had been betrayed by his own commanders .
fully honoring his corpse ,
alexander hunted down these commanders to unknown lands .
crossing even beyond the river oxos , into sogdia .
we fought them as far as the unknown steppes of scythia ,
where only legendary heroes had once taught .
the surveyors told us we were now in the borders of where europe and asia meet .
in fact , we were totally lost .
here alexander founded his tenth alexandria , .. and settled it with veterans , their women , and any who would dare the frontier life .
unable to accept defeat in any form ,
alexander persisted in breaking every tribe that resisted ,
until the day he received the head of his last enemy in surrender .
for alexander , there could be no pretender to the throne of asia , .. which now included all of sogdia and bactria .
it was here that alexander made one of his most mysterious decisions .
her eyes tell me , she cares for you alexander ,
perhaps too much .
in the ways of my country ,
those who love too much , lose everything ,
those who love with irony , last .
your father must been turning in his grave alexander ,
after all this time , a hill chief' s daughter .
by athena' s justice , this girl has spirit !
and what' s the point alexander ?
just take her as your concubine .
because i want a son ,
damn you , philotas .
but then half your nobles have sisters you' d make fine macedonian mothers .
to take an asian as my queen not a captive ,
is a sign of deep respect for our subjects ,
it will , more than anything , bring us together , unify us .
which is not to say i won' t take a macedonian one day .
as a second wife , and insult macedonia .
alexander !
this is about the honor of our kingdom .
exactly , what can be won alexander ?
we came here to asia to punish them for their crimes .
we' ve achieved that .
seven years from home ,
now we drift from one far region to another ,
chasing nomads and bandits , when macedonia bleeds it' s manpower ..
for what ?
to build roads in asia ?
to give these people cities ?
to found cities , and expand our reach is not to drift parmenion .
what benefit to macedon ?
it' s far richer than before !
look what you give them !
with respect for your age , parmenion , had you fought better at gaugamela , .. when your flank was crumbling , we could have had darius .
how dare you nearchus !
general nearchus to you boy .
alexander spread our flag too thin !
there was nothing my father , any of you could have done .
sit down .
alexander , i have known you since you were born ,
i supported you at your father' s death .
at the very least , for zeus' s sake , .. and in respect to the council that chose you king ,
give us a macedonian heir .
a macedonlan heir .
you have been heard clearly .
parmenlon !
and after the wedding you will take brigades back to babylon ,
where i look to you , and antipater in greece , to maintain our empire and supply this expedition .
i will away to the north with my advance army at marakand .
and i pray to apollo you soon realize how far you' ve turned from your father' s path !
ah damn you parmenion by the gods and your apollo !
what was in my father' s guts ?
was it over ripened reason like yours ?
he never lusted for war alexander ! .. or enjoyed it so !
he consulted his peers in counsel , among equals , hmmn ?
the macedonian way .
he didn' t make decisions based on his personal desires .
i have taken us further than my father ever dreamed .
old man , we are in new worlds .
alexander , be reasonable !
were they ever meant to be our equals ?
share our rewards ?
you remember what aristotle said ,
an asian ?
what would a wedding vow ever mean to a race that has never kept their word to a greek ?
aristotle be damned !
by zeus and all the gods ,
what makes you so much better than them , cassander ?
better than you really are , in you and those like you is this .
alexander .
what disturbs me most is not your lack of respect for my judgement , .. it' s your contempt for a world far older than ours .
and so ten years after his mother' s insistence he marry a macedonian ,
our union , greek and barbarian ,
the most powerful man in the world , .. took a girl of no political significance .
why ?
some say it was for alliance with the tribes .
others , the desire for a successor ,
and yet others said alexander truly fell in love .
who roxane really was ,
i doubt that any of us ever saw further than the pools of those black eyes .
alexander .
special for you !
on this glorious occasion ,
i toast this great army that has given so much ,
and in honor of them , those of you who set out with us seven long years ago ,
i pronounce , all your debts paid forthwith from the royal treasury .
and in honor of my bride ,
my beautiful bride ,
we recognize the many women who shared the long hard road with us ,
i grant them doweries befitting a proper marriage .
but what about our boys ?
and lastly , lastly the gods demand no less of us ,
that your children with these women be given a proper greek education , and military training ,
under our protection , .. so as to be the new soldiers of our kingdom in asia .
i found it in egypt ,
the man that sold it to me said , .. it came from a time when man worshipped sun and stars .
i' il always think of you ..
as the sun , alexander ,
and i pray your dream will shine on all men .
i wish you a son !
you' re a great man !
you love him ?
he is hephaistion .
there are many different ways to love roxane , come .
you have no fear , it' s fitting , .. a man searches for a woman at earth' s top ,
and finds her .
the myth becomes real .
great man , scared ?
you i kill now .
do it !
end it !
i would do the same .
i' il die a fool , for this ..
love .
my life is now yours .
you will have my son .
who is this woman you call your queen , alexander ?
a hill girl ?
you with your breeding ,
already she makes enemies , with her strong , clumsy nature ,
do not confuse us , i was never a barbarian as philip said ,
we are of achilles royal blood ,
zeus is your father .
oh i understand .
she brings you some happiness ,
but hear me when i tell you act , and act soon ,
and after seven years , people wonder , " .. who is this king alexander ?
i have given you ample proof ,
antipater daily undermines your authority ,
return to babylon and strengthen your center ,
or come home to macedonia and reorganize ,
but do not chase your dream further east !
your life , and mine depend on it .
remember my only thoughts are of you ,
as you , too , must face your glorious destiny ,
think kindly of your mother .
provide for me , protect me from your enemies when you are gone ,
and remember always , .. it is i who loves you more than any .
if only you were not a pale reflection from my mother' s heart .
who did this ?
tell me .
hermolaos
never will you find a man as devoted as i ...
the conspiracy deeply upset alexander ,
not only because it involved the young pages , who' d shared his dream ,
but , more intimately , it implicated philotas ,
his companion from boyhood , who was captain of alexander' s royal guards .
alexander , remember me for who i am .
i do remember you philotas , but not as you remember yourself .
it appears to me and your peers here that true weather of your soul is ambition .
no ...
none of us defended philotas , .. but then again , none of us ever liked him ,
and of course his power was carved up by the rest of us .
before he died , we tortured him ,
to find out what his father parmenion knew ,
but this we never learned ,
but what to do with parmenion and his 20, 000 troops guarding our supply lines , was a far more delicate matter ,
was he innnocent in this ? .. or had he decided to act before age further withered his power ?
we' il be divided .
the men will follow their king .
alexander won' t be there .
necessity required alexander to act ,
and he' d sealed the camp within the hour of the first accusations against philotas .
then go antigonus .
and cleitus . .. and go quickly .
three days hard riding sent antigonus and cleitus to parmenion .
his soldiers accepted the finding of guilt against parmenion ,
as they understood that the head of family is responsible for the behavior of all .
cleitus , antigonus .
i remember a remark of bagoas ' once ,
that love eluded alexander as much , if not more , .. than finding the end of the world .
in the spring , alexander marched an army of 150, 000 ,
across the passes of the hindu kush ,
into the unknown ,
in his dream , it was the promised route ..
