why do you have to park so far away ?
this ridge was a little further away than it looked .
you can' t just land a jumper anywhere , rodney .
it doesn' t matter now , i think we' re almost there .
rodney , do you even know what it is we are looking for ?
yeah , well , whatever it is , it' s around here somewhere .
what' s around here ?
whatever it was that was causing the energy spike we detected from the puddle jumper .
d' you have any idea what that looks like ?
i' il know it when i see it ...
and i see it .
looks like a door .
yes , it is remarkably door like
well , looks like the only way through the ridge anyway .
it runs for miles .
alright , let' s check it out .
there' s something there .
what ?
some kind of an energy barrier around the threshold .
it disappeared .
or it went right through a cloak .
it has many of the same properties as a cloaking field .
yeah , and the ancients did tend to hide all the really cool stuff .
yeah , i would just like to be able to explain these readings better before we step through .
get me a branch .
you got tape ?
because ...
i got a camera !
i didn' t ask for a log !
thank you !
ok , so ...
tape it to the stick ...
we extend the camera through , record for a few minutes , pull it back , play the recorder .
yeah !
malp on a stick !
yes , malp on a stick , very clever .
are we done ?
yep !
i am not fluent in ancient but i do recognise a few words .
' welcome ' and ' ascension ' .
ascension ?
to a higher plane of existence .
the race of people who built the stargate , they eventually evolved to a point where they ascended to a state of pure energy .
that' d be great !
yeah , well , sadly it' s a matter of ... evolution .
anyway ...
i' m sure we' ve got more than enough now .
there we go .
and ... have a look , shall we ?
ok , then !
any volunteers ?
i' il go .
just ... back out if you encounter anything problematic .
problematic ?
yeah , like poisonous atmosphere , acid atmosphere , no atmosphere .
hey , it' s a malp on a stick , only shows you so much .
ok .
here goes .
weird !
yeah , it' s kinda hurting my hands a little .
ok , so get outta there .
i' m trying to , but it' s pulling me in .
i got you .
ok , come on , guys , get me outta here .
i' m tryin ' .
well , try harder .
no , we proved this it shouldn' t be happening .
well , it is !
it' s pulling me in !
it' s too strong !
don' t touch the barrier !
saison 2 episode 12 epiphany
callie sullivan
team sg 66 www . seriestele . net
i don' t know if you can hear me over the radio , but ...
i' m finally on the other side .
looks just like the pictures .
hurts pretty bad to move .
i don' t know if i can ...
alright , you guys ... stay put .
why did you tell us to let him go ?
because you weren' t gonna stop and the last thing we need is both of you to get pulled in with him .
why would the ancestors create something that would do this ?
i don' t know .
figure it out or you' re going in after him !
ok , that is not helping !
obviously the portal reacts differently to living matter than it does to inanimate objects .
it might even be specific to humans .
this is sheppard , can you hear me now ?
i' ve taken a good look around the area .
cave opens up to the other side of the ridge .
there' s not much there , so ...
i' m just gonna ... wait here ... and give you guys a chance to figure this one out .
colonel sheppard , this is teyla .
please respond .
you' re wasting your time and it' s not gonna work .
colonel , if you can hear me , please respond .
there' s absolutely nothing on this tape that could possibly indicate any kind ...
oh , no !
what ?
the memory' s full .
it' s recorded almost two hours and ... and the battery just died !
dammit !
why are you wasting time ?
that is the one thing i am not doing .
ok , look ,
i need something living , like a , like a flower , or a blossom .
ok .
now would not be a good time to throw that rock i asked you to throw a few hours ago .
i' d never see it coming , this side is as black as oil .
there' s one thing i haven' t tried , so if you can hear me ... stand back .
and if you can' t ...
well , then i guess you can' t hear me .
good one , john !
shoot yourself !
this is downright problematic , rodney !
to test a theory .
work with me here , people .
look , if i' m right , we need to hurry .
what are you doin ' , mckay ?
i am trying to determine how much faster time is passing on the other side of the portal than it is here .
why would time progress faster ?
that doesn' t make any sense .
that is what i am trying to prove .
now , just wait !
one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine ...
mckay ...
ten , bear with me , twelve , thirteen , fourteen , fifteen , sixteen , seventeen , eighteen , nineteen , and twenty .
a whole lot faster !
can you hear me now ?
the cave opens up to the other side of the ridge but there' s nothing in the immediate area i can survive on .
ok , that' s day two and i' m out of water .
we don' t leave our people behind , right ?
how about sending me a signal to show me that you' re still there ?
doesn' t have to be a rock , you can write a damn note .
i' m gonna turn off my radio for another six hours to conserve the battery , and try to get some sleep .
sheppard out .
the blossoms have aged several hours at least .
we might be able to pick him up in the jumper but i need to get back to atlantis .
you' re not goin ' anywhere .
it is a time dilation field , which means that time is passing much faster on the other side of the portal than it is here for us .
i' m not sure of the exact ratio , but i need to go now .
why ?
i don' t have time to explain temporal compression theory to you when every moment we stand here debating this ,
literally hours could be going by for colonel sheppard relative to us .
look , hours equate to days , and days for us could mean years for him .
do you get it now ?
teyla !
i need you to follow me back as far as the puddle jumper and i' il explain what i need you to do on the way .
and you , stay here .
and do what ?
don' t go through , if that' s what you' re thinking .
give me the knapsack .
rodney , teyla ...
ronon ?
come in ?
you guys are starting to worry me a little bit here .
empty your pockets , everything you think he might need to survive .
we might just buy him a little more time there .
come on .
go .
good .
what the hell took you guys so long ?
alright .
emergency rations , medical kit .
anything else ?
extra batteries for the camcorder .
right .
you know what to do ?
press record , extend and hold for three seconds .
no more , no less .
and then pull it out again .
right .
if he' s still there , that should give him plenty of time to record a detailed message .
dammit !
why didn' t i send through a note ?
what do you mean if he is still there ?
look , depending on the compression ratio inside the field , there' s a very good chance he may have used up the supplies we' ve sent through by the time you get back .
i know it' s hard to get your head around but what it means is we have to ...
we must hurry .
right .
go go go go go go go .
good !
alright !
right !
what , you have no idea whether he' s injured ?
the excruciating pain he was experiencing was a result of the temporal differential .
and what is that , exactly ?
the ... portal must somehow dampen the extreme tidal forces that would normally occur in the event horizon of a time dilation field , and we were keeping him from passing through it .
so part of his body is experiencing time at a different pace than the other ?
who knows what that could do to him ?
i have no idea , but i suspect he could use a doctor .
so you don' t even know if he' s alive ?
the most time efficient approach was to assume that he was alive but stranded .
and why not assume that he' il make his own way back through the portal ?
because cl sheppard would have already had hours to try to make it back through the portal in the time
i wasted explaining the situation to conan and xena !
now , rodney , that' s not very ...
no .
no , i suppose it isn' t .
this is mckay .
supplies been loaded aboard yet ?
almost there , sir .
just a few more cases .
alright .
when you' re done with that , make sure you assist zelenka in securing the descent probe into the launch compartment .
let' s move .
this is sheppard .
i' m pretty sure you can' t hear me , but i don' t have a volleyball to talk to , so what the hell ...
i' ve rationed what little i have for as long as i could but
i have enough left for maybe one more day .
i' ve gotta get myself something to live on while i find my own source of food and water .
not that i didn' t appreciate the three canteens of water and the whole handful of power bars .
there' s nothing in the immediate area .
i' m gonna have to go further out .
i' m giving you an indication of where i go , as i go .
sheppard out .
that was quick .
not fast enough , i fear .
get the camera .
doctor mckay would like us to try this again .
to see if sheppard' s still alive ?
and to determine the true passage of time on the other side .
alright .
alright .
one , two , three .
that wasn' t long enough to see anything .
and yet it seems to have recorded several minutes .
he is not there .
well , you' re either gonna eat me , or ...
i' m gonna eat you .
we' ve loaded weeks of supplies and everything i could think of .
what' re we not thinking of ?
now take a minute , and be certain .
if your theory is correct , you won' t be able to make many of these trips .
i am painfully aware of that .
i remind you only because from what you' ve told me , rushing is what got sheppard into trouble in the first place .
this was not his fault , it was mine .
i should have looked more closely at the video .
the clues were there before he even stepped through .
look , all i can hope to do now is fix this within his lifetime .
his lifetime ?
if it takes us a week to ten days to fix this , then it won' t matter , because he will probably have died of old age .
oh my god .
yeah , hence the rushing .
now , you ready ?
you don' t look ready .
i' m ready .
i need to pick up a few of my books to help with the translation .
well , we' il pick `em up on the way , and i hope you' ve got us a real jumper pilot because i don' t trust him and i can' t fly the damned thing in a straight line .
help !
help me , please !
where is it ?
it' s there .
in the trees .
what is it ?
the beast !
alright , is there a safe place for us to go ?
no , no , the cloister is too far .
it' s upon us !
stay down , and stay behind me .
you can' t fight it !
maybe we can scare it away .
get outta here !
there it is .
well , according to these readings , it' s not there .
rodney , i can see it with my own eyes it' s right inside that crater .
it' s hard to say whether the ancients actually built it inside the crater or whether the rim formed as a result of the time dilation field .
the jumper sensors aren' t picking up anything ?
nothing , ma' am .
alright .
position us directly above it and stand by .
prepare to launch the probe on my mark .
what is this probe of yours supposed to do ?
well , it' s supposed to descend slowly into the atmosphere of a gas giant .
the `chute opens , the probe separates into two components joined by a tether hundreds of metres long .
so we should be able to receive telemetry from inside the time dilation field while the other half of the probe is still outside .
right .
and depending on the variance , we might be able to fly right into the field and rescue sheppard .
very clever , rodney !
yes , it is .
actually , it was zelenka' s idea .
hi .
he' s awake again !
i am now !
i am teer .
have we met ?
when avrid first brought you here .
you were terribly injured from fighting the beast .
avrid carried you almost halfway across the sanctuary .
and i healed you .
you did ?
you' re a little young to be a doctor .
hedda is one of the few among us who possesses the healing power .
well , good .
thank you .
it' s we who should thank you for saving our brother from the beast .
it' s funny , i don' t remember winning .
it' s good to see you awake and well again .
didn' t it come after you ?
no .
only the ascended know why .
none of them are around , are they ?
are you hungry ?
starving .
which one of you got me out of my clothes and into these ?
i did .
is that alright ?
yeah .
i just usually like to ... meet a woman before she sees me naked .
what do we have here ?
i' m glad you' re feeling better .
welcome to your new home .
avrid , i' m happy to visit and i' m grateful for the food and the whole healing thing , but ... do you know the way out of here ?
there is no way to leave , john , other than to ascend .
what exactly do you mean by " there' s no way " ?
that is the sole purpose of this place ...
to meditate upon ascension and one day join those who created the sanctuary .
the thing is , i' ve got other plans .
then why did you enter the portal ?
well , call it a mistake .
i tried to stop it but the damned thing sucked me in .
those that came before us made certain that there could be no indecision .
once you set foot within the sanctuary , your path was chosen .
not by me !
once you cross the threshold , you are committed to be here for the remainder of your days .
alright .
launch the probe on my mark .
three , two , one , mark .
the probe' s about to pass through the field .
stand by .
dammit !
what happened ?
exactly what i was afraid would happen .
the probe was ripped apart by tidal forces at the event horizon almost instantly .
so we can' t fly through it and rescue colonel sheppard ?
not unless we wanna be ripped apart too !
did you receive any telemetry before the probe failed ?
actually quite a lot .
looks like mostly gibberish , though .
this is gonna take me the better part of an hour to go through .
i' m glad i finally got you outside .
you' ve been alone in your room for so long .
i' m being depressed .
is it so terrible here ?
no , you folks have been great .
it' s just ...
i have responsibilities back home .
people i care about , and who care about me .
at least i thought they did .
why' d you come here ?
well , i was born here .
no , i mean your people .
well , they came generations ago .
i' m from a race of people who revered those who came before us , those who created this place .
we call them ancients .
to follow in their footsteps , to ascend , was the greatest goal among our forefathers .
many centuries ago , some of our people sensed it was within them to do so .
it took them many years to discover the location of this world and once they found it , they came to this world as a pilgrimage .
we are their descendants .
not many of you left .
no .
we are the last .
so what' s holdin ' you back ?
journeys such as ours can take a lifetime .
you afraid it might not happen ?
we' re not afraid of anything .
well , i' d be pretty afraid of that beast thing .
as long as we stay in the cloister , we' re safe .
and what kind of life is that ?
well , life here is not entirely without its pleasures .
the telemetry was not entirely gibberish .
bring up the hud .
i' ve been able to determine the location of the power source inside the field , here .
what good is that ?
once we know where the generator is , one way or another , i should be able to turn it off .
you know , you don' t have to do this for me every morning .
you saved my brother' s life .
then shouldn' t he be the one bringing me breakfast ?
he is meditating with the others .
he' s always meditating .
everyone' s always meditating .
at least share it with me .
it' s ok .
it is very close .
it' s here .
it' s never come inside the cloister .
i am scared .
it' s ok .
take her inside .
john ...
do it .
go .
ok , people , i' m starting to develop some serious abandonment issues here !
ok , but i' m warning you i' ve got a knife !
no !
come back !
come back !
come back !
now there' s two of us !
ronon !
he left a sign for us to see .
he must have gone to look for another way out .
at least we know he may still be alive .
teyla , ronon .
we' re inbound in the jumper and should touch down in a few minutes .
meet us at the landing site .
understood .
we thought we' d lost you again .
what happened ?
i' ve never seen such bravery .
were it not for you , all may have been lost .
i don' t remember winning this time either .
he' s not fully healed .
i' m fine .
you' ve done enough , hedda .
come on .
let' s get you some rest .
what the hell' s the matter with you people ?
i don' t understand .
i' m talking about letting her stand out there alone against that thing .
violence is not the path to ascension .
there' s a difference between violence and self defence .
we are very close to ascension , john .
all of us .
if we leave the path , it may be lost to us forever .
everything may be lost to you forever unless you stand up to that damned thing .
i must join the others in meditation .
you sure it was three seconds ?
yes .
and there' s twelve minutes of video .
yes .
alright , so it' s a ratio of about ...
two hundred and fifty to one .
i sent my watch through , along with a letter to colonel sheppard telling him we' re doing our best to rescue him .
if you would like to check again ...
no , that' s good , that' s good , that' s good , good .. good thinking .
just out of curiosity , what does that mean for colonel sheppard in terms of ... days ?
we' re already talking months .
you don' t have to wait up for me .
you' ve been gone over a day .
yeah , well , after i found my weapons ,
i decided to take a run all the way back to the portal , and look what i found .
i don' t know what took `em so long , but my friends finally sent some supplies through .
there are people here who care for you .
sorry , i should' ve ... told somebody .
i knew .
i was following your journey in my mind .
i was with you since you left the cloister .
is that some special power of yours you haven' t told me about ?
yes .
i' ve been with you each time you' ve searched for a means to leave us .
as hedda has the power to heal , i am able to see images in my mind .
it' s not uncommon for those on the path to ascension to gain such abilities .
i wish you woulda told me , i could' ve used you out there .
it took me forever to find this stuff !
before my mother ascended , she could move things with her mind .
you can imagine how wondrous that would be for a child .
sit with me .
i was the one who sent avrid to find you .
you did ?
because i knew you were coming that night , and i knew where you would be in the field and i have known since i was a child that you would sit here with me as you do now .
i' ve been able to close my eyes and see your face my entire life , john .
you are the one .
the one what ?
the one who will lead us to ascension .
what is it ?
nothin ' .
i just was hoping you were going in a different direction with that .
i' ve seen that as well .
that' s why i waited for you .
really ?
tonight .
tonight ?
i ...
i wish you woulda told me , i wouldn' t have gone on a ten hour run .
and in the coming days , once you have defeated the beast , we will ascend together , all of us .
you mean all of you .
i haven' t given up on you just yet .
i don' t know how that' s gonna happen , teer .
i really don' t .
look , i' ve been up against that thing twice .
i don' t see how a third time' s gonna turn out any different .
you don' t have to know how .
you just have to trust that it will .
ok , i think i' ve got it .
i am interpreting a bit , but it seems the field was designed as a sanctuary from the wraith , but a place the last of the ancients could travel to and hopefully ascend without fear of attack .
of course .
they could potentially spend entire lifetimes inside the field before the wraith even discovered the place .
and if they ever attacked , their ships would get torn apart just as the probe did .
and so it has remained for ten thousand years .
this writing here ... this serves as a sort of welcome , as well as a warning for any of the humans under their protection looking for sanctuary , but i think it was left there for anyone who wanted to seek the path to ascension on their own .
and what' s the warning ?
that once you cross the threshold , there' s no return .
that is , unless you have the exact location of the power source and the expertise to turn it off .
hey , we may even get a zedpm out of this .
now you' re talkin ' .
lieutenant , this is weir .
if you haven' t heard from us in ...
rodney ?
well , an hour would give us months in there , but ,
elizabeth , of all the people who should stay , it would be you .
there may be writing by the power source that needs translating .
there is a slight chance that when we go through ...
rodney ,
i' m going .
lieutenant , one hour , then head back to atlantis and see if zelenka can think of anything .
understood .
well , he may need medical treatment and i' m the only doctor here , so i should probably just ...
carson , it probably won' t hurt so much if you just go through quickly .
alright , let' s do this .
that wasn' t so bad !
you were just ...
that' s weird ... ?
well , we may as well relax .
the others are gonna be at least five minutes .
judging by the location of the power source , we' ve got a long walk ahead of us , so ...
haven' t any of you seen thunderstorms ?
the sanctuary provides rain for the orchards .
i' m talkin ' about thunder and lightning .
giant bolts of electricity shooting down from the sky .
sounds scary .
well , it is scary , but it' s also very cool .
it' s ok to be scared , it' s part of life .
you know , when i was a kid , we used to have storms that shook the house .
scared me half to death .
when we are ascended , we will experience such things .
hell , if you' re ascended , you can make thunderstorms !
i' m talking about actually experiencing life .
we contemplate on the experience that is life each day .
i' m talking about living it .
haven' t any of you got things you wanna do as flesh and blood human beings first ?
i mean , you , you talk about moving on to a plane of existence beyond your own mortality , but you haven' t even really lived .
our lives are full .
well , i' ve spent a long time with you folks , and i don' t think " full " means what you think it means .
to ascend , one must meditate .
you' re not meditating , you' re hiding .
from what ?
you know the answer to that .
he means the beast .
yes , i do .
now i don' t know how any of you expect me to feel like i belong here , but every time that thing comes around ,
i' m out there alone .
you' re not alone .
i know , you were out there too .
no , i mean your friends have come .
they number five .
they' ve come for you .
they have ?
are , are you sure ?
that' s the best news i' ve ...
no , john , i sense something more .
the beast is nearly upon them .
you know , i was just thinking , this entire field , i mean not the field
i mean the field , field must generate its own day and night cycle , not to mention its own artificial climate .
i mean , it' s incredible !
when you think ...
you wanna pick up the pace , mckay ?
hey , he' s waited for months .
another half hour isn' t gonna kill him .
we don' t know how long it' s gonna take to find him .
aye , and besides that , i have a date planned with lieutenant cadman for tomorrow night .
oh , no , so we' ve only got twelve years in here !
what ?
what is it ?
i' m not detecting anything .
doesn' t mean it isn' t there .
can you see anything ?
no .
but i sense something is close .
maybe we should try another way ?
won' t make any difference .
it' s stalking us .
sounds like it' s more than one .
yeah , more than one what ?
i do not know .
what the hell took you so long ?
believe it or not , you were only gone a couple of hours .
try six months !
you don' t understand , you' ve been trapped in a time dilation field .
what ?
what was that bloody thing ?
i don' t know .
what' s a time dilation field ?
can we talk about this somewhere else ?
no , it is still close .
you' ve fought this thing before ?
twice .
how did you beat it ?
still haven' t figured that out .
now' d be a good time .
yeah , well , what' d you say we just fight it and see what happens ?
john ?
friends of yours ?
we' ve come to stand with you , whatever happens .
no , we' ve come to fight .
and we are not afraid of you .
the beast is of our own creation , and it is long past time we sent it away .
that' s it ?
that' s all it took ?
you were right , john .
we were afraid .
the beast was the final burden we had to shed , manifest from our own fears .
you gave us the courage to face it .
come with us .
i' m not ready for that yet .
i' m not sure i' il ever be .
one day , perhaps ?
yeah , one day .
i' il look forward to it .
there' il be no need to destroy the sanctuary , doctor mckay .
what ?
no ... , i wasn' t thinking that , i was ...
we will keep the portal open for you until you are gone .
at which point the zedpm which undoubtedly powers this beautiful place will be ...
sanctuary was left by those who came before us , for those who may seek it out and follow the path .
and it will continue to remain after you are gone .
yeah , but ...
absolutely .
what is it with you and ascended women ?
well , the beard is interesting !
first thing to go when we get home .
never thought i' d see any of you again .
kind of even ... missed you a little .
yeah , well , it was only a couple of hours for us , so ...
ronon .
we were all quite worried about you .
of course we were .
we' re just sorry we didn' t get here sooner .
let' s get outta here !
