the most beautiful thing in the world is a match well made ... and a happy marriage to you both .
thank you , emma .
your painting grows more accomplished every day .
you are very kind , but it would be all the better ... if i practiced my drawing more as you urged me .
it' s very beautiful .
i should never take side against you , miss woodhouse , but your friend is right .
it is indeed a job well done .
a job well done , mr. elton , was yours in performing the ceremony .
must the church be so drafty , mr. elton ?
it is very difficult to surrender the soul ... when one is worried about one' s throat .
perhaps some tea and cake would revive you , mr. woodhouse ?
miss taylor , surely you' re not serving cake at your wedding ?
far too rich .
you put us all at peril .
and i am not alone in feeling so .
where is mr. perry , the apothecary ?
he will support me .
he is over there , mr. woodhouse , having some cake .
what ?
i have to take father home .
but dear miss taylor
oh , no !
you are " dear miss taylor " no more !
you are dear mrs. weston now .
and how happy this must make you .
such happiness this brings to all of us .
my dear emma !
poor miss taylor .
she was so happy here .
why should she give up being your governess only to be married ?
i am grown now .
she cannot put up with my ill humors forever .
she must wish for children of her own .
you have no ill humors .
your own mother , god rest her , could be no more real than miss taylor .
can she truly wish to give life to a mewling infant ... who will import disease each time it enters the house ?
no !
i said poor miss taylor and poor , indeed , she is .
who cried the most at the wedding ?
and how is my sister ? ls your brother giving her the respect ... we woodhouse ladies deserve ?
poor lsabella .
she was the first to leave me .
no doubt , that is where miss taylor got the notion to go .
don' t be too hard on miss taylor .
it must be easier for her to have only one to please than two .
especially when one of us is such a troublesome creature .
yes , i am ... most troublesome .
dear papa , i could never mean you .
mr. knightley loves to find fault with me , that' s all .
it' s his idea of a joke .
i' m practically a brother to you , emma .
is it not a brother' s job to find fault with his sister ?
but where is the fault with you ?
emma bears it well .
but she is most sorry to lose miss taylor .
we would not like emma so well as we do if she did not miss her friend .
thank you .
i shall miss her so .
i do not know what i shall do without her .
she' s not far .
almost half a mile !
her obligations are there now .
she cannot sit and talk with me in the old way , or walk with me , or urge me to better myself .
that should not matter as you always did just as you pleased .
yes .
but i shall miss her urging me .
she was as selfless a friend as i have ever had .
i hope to say someday i have done half as much for someone ... as mrs. weston did for me .
you must be happy that she settled so well .
lndeed !
one matter of joy in this is that i made the match myself .
people said mr. weston would never marry again .
and what a triumph .
triumph ?
you made a lucky guess .
have you never known the triumph of a lucky guess ?
had i not promoted mr. weston' s visits ... and given encouragement where encouragement was needed , we might not have had a wedding today .
then please , my dear , encourage no one else .
marriage is so disrupting to one' s social circle .
only one more , papa .
when mr. elton joined their hands today , he looked very much as if he would like the same kind office performed for him .
invite him for dinner .
that is kindness enough .
mr. elton is a man of 26 .
he knows how to take care of himself .
one does not like to generalize about so many people all at once , mr. knightley , but you may be sure that men know nothing about their hearts ... whether they be six and twenty or six and eighty .
excepting you , of course , father .
no .
mr. elton will be the next person to benefit from my help .
poor miss taylor , indeed !
it is mr. elton who deserves our pity .
mr. elton !
welcome to our party .
miss woodhouse , thank you indeed for including me .
a party is a party .
but a party on a summer' s eve , mmm !
it relieves my mind very much that you are here .
for there is someone new in our group .
her name is harriet smith .
and she is a former pupil of mrs. goddard' s .
i had never met miss smith before this evening ... and i' m already struck by her charm .
i wondered if i might ask you ... to make certain she is at ease throughout the evening .
if helping miss smith would help miss woodhouse , then i' m happy to be of service .
come .
i shall make the introduction .
miss woodhouse , we come quite overpowered .
oh , mrs. bates , miss bates .
so happy you could come .
no !
we are the happy ones .
w well , how do you do , mr. elton ?
we are the happy ones , not only to be here tonight , but for the beautiful hindquarter of pork you sent us .
it has been heaven itself .
what a happy porker it must have come from !
we' re so obliged for your sending it to us .
pork !
and we' re so obliged for your having us tonight .
very much indeed .
i was just saying to mother , we should be obliged and indeed we are .
oh , doesn' t your hair look pretty ?
just like an angel .
angel , mother !
oh , speaking of angels , mr. elton , your sermon on daniel in the lion' s den was so inspiring .
so powerful in all its particulars .
it left us speechless .
quite speechless , i tell you .
we have not stopped talking of it since .
isn' t this a lovely party ?
lovely !
lovely !
lovely !
where will you live now that you' ve completed your education ?
mrs. goddard has been kind enough to let me stay on with her .
she' s a great help to me .
if you' il excuse me .
mrs. goddard .
mr. knightley .
ah , emma .
i wondered where you were .
but now i see you' ve been hard at work making mr. elton comfortable .
yes , but i' ve been remiss in doing the one thing ... that shall bring him the greatest enjoyment .
mr. elton .
may i present miss smith ?
any friend of miss woodhouse is
mr. weston , have you had any news of your son ?
oh , indeed .
miss smith , i was married many years ago ... to a woman whose life was lost to illness ... just three years after the birth of our son , frank .
as i could not see to my business and care for the infant ,
i allowed him to be brought up by my wife' s brother ... and his wife , the churchills .
he lives in london now , a young man , and has never been here .
his aunt is not well and she does not care to be without him .
his coming would be the final blessing for our marriage .
how lucky to have been twice blessed in marriage .
it has been my belief that one loves only once .
i' m happy to be wrong .
not so happy as i , miss smith .
i had the most pleasing letter from him on the occasion of our marriage .
i have it here if anyone would care to see it .
a most charming and kindly letter .
don' t you think so , mother ?
have , have you ever read such a letter , mr. knightley ?
do you know , this ... this reminds me of jane' s style somewhat .
it' s a very delicate style which is more usual in a woman , but a good sign in a man , i think .
nicely expressed .
but it sounds as though he eats a worrisome amount of custard .
it' s not merely the feeling in it .
the penmanship is so confident .
isn' t miss smith delightful ?
i watched her with continuous pleasure .
she is uncertain in these surroundings , yet i thought perhaps ...
i could be of service to her , undertake her introduction into highbury society .
i could never presume to guide her as you did me .
oh !
but i might be able to share a little of what i know .
she could ask for nothing better .
come , mr. weston , i must write to your son .
good night , mr. woodhouse .
good night , mr. woodhouse .
good night , emma .
thank you for a wonderful dinner .
good night , miss taylor .
good night , mrs. weston , mr. weston .
good night .
poor miss taylor .
she so obviously wanted to stay .
how interesting , miss smith .
and what kind of people are your parents ?
i do not know .
mrs. goddard has said that i cannot know them and so i have left it at that .
because of her attentions over the years , mrs. goddard has been my true guardian .
hurry along , dear .
it' s miss bates coming .
as it is tuesday ... she will have a letter from her niece jane fairfax , and she will want to read us every word .
oh , i do not know miss fairfax .
there' s not much to be said for her .
when pressed , i say she is elegant .
besides you and mrs. goddard , the only other people i know here are the martins of abbey mill farm .
mrs. martin had two parlors and an upper maid and eight cows !
mr. martin used to cut fresh flowers every day .
how lucky for mrs. martin to have such an agreeable husband !
oh , miss woodhouse , mr. martin is not her husband .
he is her son .
ahh !
i see .
and he is ... unmarried .
mmm .
though i cannot understand why .
he seems perfect in every particular .
he brought me walnuts once , and went three miles to get them ... just because he heard me say i liked them .
wasn' t that kind ?
tell me more about mr. martin .
is he a man of information ?
oh , yes .
he reads the agricultural reports .
and i recommended he read the romance of the forest , and he said he would .
and what sort of looking man is he ?
mmm .
i thought him very plain at first , but i do not think so now .
have you never seen him when he is in town ?
a family like the martins ... are precisely the sort of people with whom i have nothing to do .
a degree or two lower , and i might be useful to their families .
but a farmer needs none of my help ... and is therefore as much above my notice as he is below it .
in fact  miss woodhouse , there he is now !
how do i look ?
fine , dear .
good enough i' m sure for mr. martin .
good day .
this is a bit of a chance , isn' t it ?
good day , mr. martin .
miss woodhouse , may i present mr. martin ?
this is miss woodhouse .
good day .
how do you do ?
oh .
were you able to find the romance of the forest ?
oh , blast !
i forgot .
but i go again tomorrow , and i will make every effort to get that thought into my head .
how' s your mother ?
really , harriet , we can do better than this .
lf you pull this way , dear , you' il find it makes a neater stitch .
of course !
may i ask what you thought of my friend , robert martin ?
well , dear ,
i imagined him a degree nearer gentility .
true .
he' s not so genteel as mr. knightley , but
no !
not one in a hundred men has " gentleman " ... so plainly written across him as mr. knightley .
but let us judge him next to another man .
oh , say ...
mr. elton .
mr. elton is a fine man .
thoughtful in ways mr. martin can never be .
miss woodhouse , whatever his faults , mr. martin is thoughtful .
i see .
did he take your advice and get the book you asked him to read ?
um
well ... no .
yes .
yes !
i wonder that he did not remember it .
oh , well .
mr. elton said something very kind about you the other day .
can you not tell me what it was ?
oh !
it is not my place to intrude in personal matters .
but , as your friend , i could make an exception if you wish .
miss smith was always a beautiful creature .
but the attractions you have added are far superior .
oh , i have done very little .
if it were admissible to contradict a lady
i cannot take credit for her beauty , nor her sweetness , nor
an idea has just dropped into my mind , surely from heaven itself .
what if you were to exercise your artistic talents ... and draw a portrait of miss smith ?
how i would love to watch you draw her .
mr. elton , my skills are slender indeed , and we must not forget how shy miss smith is .
oh .
do you think it would help if i asked her to pose ?
oh , miss woodhouse , may i look , please ?
i cannot wait another second .
incredible .
you have expressed her completely .
mr. elton , really !
you exaggerate .
lndeed , i do not .
nor cannot .
the reason i have not done a portrait in so long ... is because the spouse always complains .
as there are no husbands or wives here , i trust i may proceed safely .
no husbands or wives ... at present , miss woodhouse .
you' ve made her too tall .
it ... may not be miss smith' s height in terms of measurement , but it is surely the height of her character .
my dear , i would paint a shawl on her ... as one can' t help feeling that she will catch cold .
otherwise , it is quite splendid .
it only wants a suitable frame .
we will have to get it to london .
might i be entrusted with such a commission ?
i would be gratified more than words can express .
he wants to marry me !
would you mind reading this ?
certainly not !
i cannot believe mr. elton proposed !
he surely is  not mr. elton .
mr. martin , my friend !
is it a good letter or too ... short ?
it is a good letter !
one of his sisters must have helped him .
yet , it is not in the style of a woman .
well , it is a good letter , and you must answer it immediately .
he must have his disappointment and move on .
well , you think i should refuse him ?
you did not plan to return an answer favorable to this claim ?
no , i did not .
that is , i did not mean
um , well ...
i was not sure .
that is why i came to you .
it' s not my place to intrude !
i depend so on what you think .
i would not advise you for the world !
if you prefer mr. martin to every other person you know , or may ever know , if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been ... or ever will be in company with , then why should you hesitate ?
but if you' il not influence me , i must do as well as i can by myself .
so
well , i am determined to .
and i have really almost made up my mind to ... refuse mr. martin ?
oh , do you think that' s right or wrong ? ls it wrong ?
now that you have decided , i will share the feelings i kept you in suspense of .
i think you are perfectly right .
yes .
but
oh , dear , it will make his mother and sisters most unhappy .
let us think of other mothers and sisters ... who may be more cheerfully employed at this moment .
i believe mr. elton is showing your picture to his mother and sisters ... telling them how the subject is more beautiful than the portrait .
if he shows it , i am sure it is only to praise your artistry .
if you are sure , then you are surely wrong .
by showing it to them , he is revealing his deeper intentions ... which may produce a letter of his own .
oh !
very well , i admit it .
you have improved harriet smith .
i hope you' re not the only man to have noticed .
i' m not .
i believe your friend will soon hear something serious .
something to her advantage .
who makes you his confidant ?
i have reason to believe that harriet smith will soon receive ... an offer of marriage from a man desperately in love with her .
robert martin .
he came here two evenings ago to consult about it .
he' s a tenant , you know , and a good friend .
he asked whether it would be imprudent of him to settle so early .
whether she was too young or whether he was beneath her .
better questions for mr. martin i could not have chosen myself .
i never hear better sense from anyone than from robert martin .
he proved he could afford to marry , and i said he could not do better .
no , indeed , he could not .
come .
i will tell you something in return .
he wrote to harriet yesterday .
oh , yes ?
yes .
he was refused .
i' m not sure i understand .
he asked and she refused .
then she is a greater simpleton than i believed .
the most incomprehensible thing in the world to a man ... is a woman who rejects his offer of marriage .
i do not comprehend it because it is madness .
i hope you' re wrong !
i could not be .
i saw her answer .
you saw her answer ?
emma .
you wrote her answer , didn' t you ?
if i did , i would have done no wrong .
he is not harriet' s equal .
i agree , he is not her equal .
good .
he is her superior in sense and situation .
what are harriet smith' s claims of birth or education ... that make her higher than robert martin ?
she is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom .
the advantage of the match was entirely on her side .
what ?
a farmer ?
even with all his merit , a match for my dear friend ?
it would be a degradation for her to marry a person ... whom i could not admit as my own acquaintance .
a degradation ?
for illegitimacy and ignorance ... to marry to a respected , intelligent farmer ?
she is a gentleman' s daughter .
whoever her parents , they made no plans to introduce her into good society .
she was left with mrs. goddard for an indifferent education .
her friends evidently thought this was good enough for her , and it was .
and she thought so too until you began to puff her up !
vanity working on a weak mind produces every kind of mischief .
hmm .
you dismiss her beauty and good nature .
yet i would be very much mistaken if your sex in general ... does not think those claims the highest a woman could possess .
men of sense , whatever you may say , do not want silly wives .
upon my word , emma , better be without sense than misapply it as you do .
try not to kill my dogs .
we see so differently on this point that there can be no use canvassing it .
we shall only make each other angry !
ah , i see the tea is ready .
let' s stop and have some .
clearly , emma , you have someone else in mind for your friend .
but if the gentleman you dream of is mr. elton , your labor is in vain .
as vicar , elton is unlikely to make an imprudent match , especially to a girl of obscurity who may bring him disgrace .
in unreserved moments , when only men are present ,
i have heard him speak of a large family of young ladies from bath ... who all have 20, 000 pounds apiece .
believe me when i tell you that he may talk sentimentally , but he will act rationally .
if i had my heart set on mr. elton , then your opening my eyes would have been a kind service .
but i care only to watch her grow .
no more , please !
no more .
bravo .
thank you , charles .
mr. elton .
hmm ?
harriet is collecting riddles for a little book , and we knew you would come up with something cunning .
no , no , no .
i' m not nearly clever enough .
emma , you didn' t ask me to contribute a riddle .
your entire personality is a riddle .
i thought you overqualified .
whoa .
stand .
good morning , miss woodhouse .
morning , peter .
this just came from mr. elton .
he claims it is a riddle for your collection , but i think it is much better !
is it about sharks ?
for heaven' s sake , why would he write a riddle about sharks ?
oh , please , i' m in a tremor .
tell me what it means .
we shall read it aloud so that we may decipher it .
for miss
i think we can safely put in smith .
line one .
my first displays the wealth and pomp of kings ,
iords of the earth their luxury and ease .
a king displays his pomp in court .
court .
next line .
another view of man , my second brings ; behold him there , the monarch of the seas !
that is ?
a mermaid ?
a trident ?
oh , do you think we shall ever know ?
ship , dear .
the thing which brings the " king of the sea " is a ship .
now for the cream .
but are united .
the two terms should be united !
um
the ship and court
court
courtship .
he writes to me about courtship ?
harriet , i think we can have no doubt as to mr. elton' s intentions .
you are his desire .
the only thing remaining is for him to find the perfect opportunity to offer proof .
we must find a way for the two of you to be alone .
let' s read it again and again !
i only wish mr. knightley would walk by so that he could read it .
good afternoon !
good day , miss woodhouse .
mrs. clark , how are we ?
mustn' t grumble .
no better ?
what have you brought us ?
i am sorry i was not more help .
i' m always afraid i will somehow make a sick person worse .
not at all !
look , harriet .
mr. elton' s house .
oh , pity i cannot contrive a reason for us to go in .
i do so wonder , miss woodhouse , that you' re not married .
i have no inducements to marry .
i lack neither fortune nor position , and never could i be so important in a man' s eyes as i am in my father' s .
but to be an old maid like miss bates .
she is a poor old maid , and it is only poverty which makes celibacy contemptible .
a single woman of good fortune is always respectable .
mr. elton !
mr. elton .
miss woodhouse !
miss smith !
how fortunate !
i was just on my way to visit the clarks .
we were just there .
oh .
harriet was kind enough to let me join her .
ah , miss woodhouse
um , may i escort you home ?
indeed !
harriet , tell mr. elton what you did at the clarks .
oh .
um
well , she seemed to have the chills , so miss woodhouse
watched ... as harriet tucked that poor lady in , warming her with a blanket and her kind nature .
tell him about the soup , dear .
the soup ?
oh !
sorry .
oh , well , i couldn' t really say .
don' t be so modest .
um , well ,
i heated some  soup ?
yes , soup .
oh , dear !
oh !
my lace .
oh .
please have the goodness to go on and i will rejoin you as soon as i can .
well , after having fed her the soup , i lifted her up ,
and carried her to the , uh  chair ?
fire .
the fire .
good afternoon .
where are you off to ?
to town , ma' am , to get some broth .
would you let me walk with you ?
dear , must we walk so quickly ?
mum said i should hurry .
would you like to play a game ?
do you mean it ?
i do .
i swear i do .
oh , it' s too wonderful !
i love [ thinking ]
can this be ?
the declaration ?
i simply love ... celery root !
and what should they be serving but ... [ together laughing ]
celery root !
emma , be careful !
the baby !
it might have an infection .
this may be the finest knightley yet .
thank you .
you and lsabella should have brought her sooner .
and she looks so fetching in the arms of her aunt .
yes , don' t they make a splendid pair ?
the journey from london , how was it ?
if you accepted adults with as little whim as you do these children , we might always agree .
how fascinating that any discordancy between us ... must always arise from my being wrong .
not fascinating , but true .
perhaps it has something to do with the gap in our ages .
i was 16 years old when you were born .
undoubtedly you' re my superior then .
but hasn' t the lapse of 21 years closed the gap ?
narrowed it .
come , dear emma , let us be friends and quarrel no more .
very well .
and might i say that we were both right as far as good intentions went .
i only hope mr. martin was not too disappointed .
hmm .
no man could be more so .
i' m very sorry .
come ... shake hands with me .
dinner is served .
good .
john .
sister , dear , when shall we meet your new friend , miss smith ?
she will be with us on friday at the weston' s christmas eve party .
it looks as though it will be a very rewarding holiday for her .
i am so looking forward to this evening .
a party is a party , but a christmas party !
where is miss smith ?
i have some sad news .
miss smith is ill and cannot be with us this evening .
sad loss to our party .
she will be missed at every moment .
however , i feel , and i hope you will concur ... that small parties are the best .
i would rather fall short by two than exceed by two .
and how fortunate ... that the snow comes now instead of yesterday when it might have made our party impossible .
now that would have been a real cause for sadness , would it not ?
yes , would you like a whiskey ?
not at the moment .
oh , thank you , thank you , yes .
weather of this severity is no friend of mine , i fear .
i know that too well , mr. woodhouse .
my son frank has written and told us something most exciting .
miss woodhouse , are you warm enough ?
yes , thank you .
when did you receive his news ?
the letter arrived today .
and on the opening we had the most wonderful surprise .
frank said
some of the other ladies were saying they were not warm enough .
i am quite comfortable .
yes .
i saw how close you were to the fire and thought perhaps you might be too warm .
mr. elton , i am in the perfect state of warmness .
at first i could not believe it , so i asked mrs. weston to read the letter herself ... to make sure i was not dreaming , but indeed frank said
miss woodhouse , is there any effort i might make ... on behalf of your father' s comfort ?
you are very kind , but i can only imagine that he' s quite comfortable .
thank you for being so thoughtful .
no .
thank you for thinking i am thoughtful .
i wondered if perhaps ... you might be so kind as to bring me some punch ?
i only hope i can complete the task quickly enough .
please ...
i could not enjoy it if i knew that you had hurried .
thrilling .
simply thrilling news .
and that was the end of the letter .
cranberry , mother .
it will soon be spring .
emma , i' m not sure i had your attention earlier ... with others so desirous of your company , but i wanted to tell you that frank is coming at last .
i so look forward to meeting him , that is if you can bear to share him .
that is if his aunt will share him with us .
that' s what this depends on .
she has said yes , but has not given a date .
very prudent .
this weather is by no means clement for the traveler abroad .
oh , no .
no , no , no .
i hope i' m not intruding .
no .
but i cannot stop thinking of miss smith' s condition .
she will be happy to know of your concern .
how could i not be concerned ?
the whole situation is most alarming .
there is nothing worse than a sore throat .
its effects are exceedingly bleak .
and that is why i must , in the presence of your friend , ask you to stop visiting her .
what ?
you are putting yourself at risk ... and we cannot allow that , can we , knightley ?
i mean , is this fair ?
have i not some right to complain ?
emma , the weather' s distressing your father .
he wants to leave .
isabella and i will take him home now in our carriage .
will you  not to worry , sir .
i will insure that your sister in law is safe .
thank you .
mr. weston ?
come , mr. woodhouse .
let' s wrap you up warmly .
certainly the weather has  miss woodhouse , please !
fate has left us alone for a reason .
release my hand !
i do not seize your hand so much as the opportunity to declare that l
good heavens , go back !
please .
i am hoping
no , fearing
ready to die if you refuse me .
surely my ardent attachment to you , my love and passion cannot help but have made an impression , and now
mr. elton , this is i , miss woodhouse .
mm hmm .
the party spirit has confused you .
i am happy to deliver your message to miss smith .
you must direct no more of it to me .
miss smith ?
what sort of message would i want to send to her ?
miss smith ?
mr. elton , the wine has weakened you .
if the wine has had any effect , it has been to strengthen my will to tell you i love you !
my astonishment is beyond anything i can express .
for you to address me in this manner after your behavior to miss smith
i never cared whether miss smith were dead or alive , except that she was your friend .
who can think of miss smith when miss woodhouse is near ?
oh , no .
everything i have said or done has been to prove my adoration for you .
why else would i go to london to have your picture framed ?
allow me to
allow me to interpret the silence .
you have long understood me .
sit back and kindly refrain from the intimacy of whispering !
am i to understand that you never sought to recommend yourself to miss smith ?
how can you be surprised ?
did you not understand the riddle i wrote ?
that was for harriet !
i most obviously did not address it to her , and left it at your home .
but oh .
she' s a very good sort of girl .
i' m sure there are men who would not object to
everybody has their level .
but i need not so totally despair of an equal alliance ... as to address myself to miss smith .
sir .
no !
i sought to recommend myself to you through those visits .
sir , i have seen you only as the admirer of my friend .
i cannot believe that .
it is well that the mistake ends where it does .
it is her mistake .
it is mine as well .
she will manage her disappointment .
leave her out of it .
how do you feel about what i have said ?
mr. elton , any hopes i had with regard to you were for harriet ... and harriet alone .
my dear child .
what is it ?
oh , miss taylor mrs. weston .
there has been an overthrow of everything i' ve been wishing for ... for harriet and mr. elton .
a development most unwelcome , most painful .
oh , dear !
you will not believe it , but ...
mr. elton , now prepare yourself , but
mr. elton is in love with you .
you knew ?
i had my suspicions , but the party confirmed it .
the worst of it is that i persuaded her to care for him .
had i not done that , i could bear anything , but it was i and i alone .
even mr. knightley warned me .
mr. knightley ?
he was very cross because i had urged harriet to reject a proposal from robert martin .
that nice farmer ?
at least there i was right .
well done , emma !
but otherwise i have made a dreadful mistake .
i sought to bring two people together and i shall never do it again .
never !
that poor girl .
she' il recover .
she' s young .
i wish i could ease the pain of this for her , but i have no idea who might be right for her .
william coxe ?
emma !
too pert ?
my dear , you said you would never try to match anyone again .
yes .
indeed .
i just wish there were some way i could soften the news when i tell her .
i' m afraid the best way is always the most straightforward .
yes .
i suppose i' il just say , " harriet
i have some news about mr. elton .
he
he' s had to leave town .
why ?
in his letter to father , he wrote he is going to bath to relax and meet new people .
and this brings me to something most unpleasant .
miss woodhouse , nothing you could ever say would be unpleasant .
this is , for i must acknowledge myself grossly mistaken ... on the one subject which has occupied us for some time past .
mr. elton ?
while expressing his fervent admiration for you as a person , it is unhappily i who have captured his fancy .
naturally i do not return the feelings , but that does not make it any less of an embarrassment .
and i place the responsibility for this directly on my own shoulders .
oh , no !
i have always felt that i did not deserve mr. elton' s affections ... so i cannot blame him for believing the same .
and i could never blame you , for only so kind a friend would have ever dreamed it possible .
harriet ,
i had always hoped that i might have something to teach you .
now i see i should be lucky to resemble you in any small way .
they have just been weaned .
i thought you might enjoy them .
they cannot help but lift the spirits .
do you suppose mr. elton is meeting young ladies while he is away ?
i do not know .
feel her paws .
i would not blame him .
i wonder when he will return .
dear , you must try to empty your mind of mr. elton , really .
oh , yes , i' m sorry .
it was kind of you to invite me .
look at her eyes !
mr. elton had brown eyes too .
oh !
harriet , there is only one place i can think of where you will not be able to speak of mr. elton .
indeed , you may not be able to speak at all .
oh , miss woodhouse , what a special , special treat !
it' s so lovely of you to come and visit us .
isn' t it , mother .
treat ?
but the best of it is , the best of it is ... that we were just speaking of a topic that would interest you both .
please do not let it be a letter from that ninny jane fairfax .
yes , here it is , a letter from mrs. cole ... who has news of mr. elton !
um , now .
yes , here we are .
he has been the toast ... of every young lady' s eye .
of course that can be of no surprise to any of us .
oh dear , miss smith , you look pale .
you must be hungry .
let me get you some cake .
isn' t it nice to have visitors , mother ?
the most amusing thing just happened .
mother was asking about jane fairfax , asking if there was any news from her , even though she said she knew it was not jane' s day for writing .
remember , mother ?
not jane' s day !
oh , napkin .
sorry .
you see , we always have a letter from jane on tuesdays , and today , as you must know , is thursday .
so i said , " mother , we have had a letter from jane this very morning .
and mother said , " but it' s thursday ! " [ giggles ]
well , you see , jane writes on tuesdays and this is thursday .
and , um , i said , " upon my honor !
here you are , miss oh , napkin .
sorry .
there you are .
and might you summarize the letter in your own delightful words ?
oh , and cheat you out of the pleasure of hearing it , miss woodhouse , as only jane can put things ?
upon my honor , i would not .
where' s that letter ?
yes , here it is .
um , and now .
oh , yes .
the bad news is she has a cold .
oh , no !
oh , yes .
but the good news far outweighs it .
far , far , far !
she is coming to visit !
you must be here to help us with her , miss woodhouse , when she comes ... because it wouldn' t be a proper visit otherwise .
you must sit right where you are .
and , and you must say
we are so glad to have you with us .
how were you able to get away ?
the campbells have gone to lreland on a holiday .
so i' ve come here , which is better than any holiday .
mmm .
she is more giving than i expected .
tell miss woodhouse whom you saw in weymouth .
frank churchill .
that' s whom she saw .
mr. frank churchill !
oh , we hear much of him , but have never seen him .
was he handsome ?
many say he is .
was he agreeable ?
he was in no way disagreeable .
was he a man of information ?
all his statements seemed correct .
i take it back .
she is
absolutely impossible !
she wouldn' t tell me anything about frank churchill .
why should you care so much about frank churchill ?
i was merely being sociable , that' s all , and she was not .
perhaps you dislike her because she divides our attentions from you .
really , mr. knightley , you are so comical .
you ought to perform in the town square .
oh , i have some news .
and i know how you like news .
oh , yes !
i always like news .
mr. elton is going to marry .
i don' t know what to say , except that i am
in a state of complete shock !
you' ve heard ?
about what ?
oh !
never mind .
i was on my way here for our visit .
it started raining , so i ducked into ford' s to wait it out .
miss smith .
miss smith .
good day , mr. ford , mr. ford .
as i admired some fabric , who should come in ... but elizabeth martin and her brother .
i thought i should have fainted .
they saw me and began whispering .
and then , oh , miss woodhouse ,
i really could not believe this .
she came up to me and spoke !
she said
i' m sorry we never meet now .
and i said  you are too kind .
then i saw that he , mr. martin , my mr. martin , was coming toward me .
good day , miss smith .
good day , mr. martin .
i managed to read the romance of the forest .
it was very good .
finally i said i had to go .
but then he followed me .
i was not three steps outside and he said
miss smith !
you better go by mr. cole' s stable .
the near way is flooded .
thank you .
miss woodhouse , do talk and make me comfortable again .
i suppose this would not be the right time ... to mention that mr. elton is engaged .
this was awkward because it was the first time ...
you' ve seen mr. martin since refusing his proposal .
no .
you , and i must say he , behaved very well !
now , the kindest thing you can do for yourself ... is to put mr. martin out of your head for good .
yes , i will .
i shall do so immediately .
he' s behind me now .
wonderful !
i thought i might sketch the puppies .
would you join me ?
oh , yes , please !
it was awfully kind of him to warn me about the flooding .
yes , dear .
he got his coat wet coming out to tell me .
that' s the coat mrs. martin gave him for his birthday .
i do hope he does not catch cold .
oh , good heavens .
is your horse just washing his feet or are there darker forces at work here ?
the latter , i' m afraid .
something has happened to the wheel and i cannot move .
you' il just have to live here then .
bye , bye .
i suppose that won' t do .
i' il help you home .
thank you so much , mr.
churchill .
frank churchill .
a name i know as well as my own so long i have heard it spoken .
your father' s wife was my governess .
then you are miss woodhouse !
how delightful .
i , i hear of nothing but you .
the last i heard from mrs. weston , you were not due ' til tomorrow .
it is always a pleasure to come in on one' s friends before the lookout begins .
i would not presume to do so in most cases , but i felt in coming home , i might be forgiven .
then you have not seen them ?
we shall have to go there first .
they will be overjoyed .
overjoyed , i think , that we are both there together .
as i am .
oh , miss woodhouse , have you heard ?
frank churchill is here !
yes ! ln fact ...
i met him yesterday .
no ?
yes .
he did me quite a service when my horse
is he handsome ?
ls he everything everyone says he is ?
i have not yet seen him myself , though , um , jane saw him ... and she said he was not at all unpleasant to look at .
i suppose i shan' t see him until the cole' s party ... which seems like such an age from now .
but i' m sure , simply sure , will be upon us before ... well , we are sufficiently prepared .
has an invitation arrived for a party at the cole' s ?
no , thank heaven !
the coles are nice people , but we should have to go outside to get there .
of course we shall have to decline as they are beneath us .
but i don' t wish them to hope falsely .
has james brought the letters yet ?
i don' t know .
i never pay any attention to the mail .
why do they not write ?
perhaps they know i must reject them .
still , as close friends of the westons , they should have the courtesy to extend the invitation .
unless they don' t want me .
but i cannot
tell you how delighted i am to have been invited , mrs. cole .
thank you .
but from today there' s a much prettier one in town .
it has been sent to jane fairfax .
really ?
who sent it to her ?
that' s the exciting part !
there was no identification of the donor .
must be from colonel campbell .
jane' s parents died .
and the bates , of course , are quite without the resources to , you know .
and colonel campbell was a great friend of her father' s , so he and his family have raised her .
well , then they must have sent it .
jane has just had a letter from them , and not a word was said of it .
perhaps it' s a surprise .
we expect miss fairfax soon .
perhaps she may know more .
why do you smile ?
i' m smiling because i wonder if there' s anyone else ... whom we should suspect of being miss fairfax' s musical patron ?
do you know her ?
oh , yes , she' s very elegant .
yes .
colonel campbell' s daughter , mrs. dixon , is miss fairfax' s dearest friend , so perhaps mrs. dixon sent the piano .
mrs. dixon ?
that makes sense .
as much sense do you think as mr. dixon ?
i cannot help suspecting that after his proposal to miss campbell , a sweet but rather a plain girl ,
mr. dixon fell in love with miss fairfax who is , after all
very elegant , yes .
but what makes you say that ?
well , she must think so too .
that is why she did not go on the holiday with the campbells .
instead she came here .
do you see ?
now that mr. dixon has married into the campbells , he would have been there .
i think that in coming here , miss fairfax was telling mr. dixon ... that she wanted to forget him .
and i think with the pianoforte , mr. dixon wasn' t allowing her to .
mrs. bates , miss bates , do come in .
welcome to our house .
of course it' s just a theory .
but let us see how she reacts at some time if we say the name , mr. dixon .
my dear , do you know how miss bates and jane fairfax came here tonight ?
mr. knightley sent his carriage .
well , yes , he' s very kind .
you give him credit for more disinterested benevolence than l .
a suspicion has darted into my head which i simply cannot get rid of .
mr. knightley and jane fairfax are a couple .
mrs. weston , do not take to matchmaking .
you do it ill .
jane fairfax and mr. knightley ?
every feeling revolts !
apart from every other  [ mrs. weston ]
oh , my goodness !
what if the pianoforte is from mr. knightley ?
you have taken up an idea and run wild with it .
he is not even with her .
she is with frank , poor man .
perhaps the two of them stay apart publicly to keep it a secret .
hush , friend .
here comes mr. cole !
miss woodhouse , would you do us the honor of trying our pianoforte ?
oh .
i fear i lack the talent .
perhaps i should ask miss fairfax ? * music ** music * [ piano ]
* music * did you not hear my lady * music *
* music * go down the garden singing * music *
* music * blackbird and thrush were silent * music *
* music * to hear the earlies ringing * music *
* music * oh , saw you not my lady * music *
* music * out in the garden there * music *
* music * shaming the rose and lily * music *
* music * for she is twice as fair * music *
* music * though i am nothing to her * music *
* music * though she must rarely look at me * music *
* music * and though i could never woo her * music *
* music * i' il love her ' til i die * music * [ together ]
* music * surely you heard my lady * music *
* music * go down the garden singing * music *
* music * silencing all the songbirds * music *
* music * and setting the earlies ringing * music *
* music * but surely you see my lady * music *
* music * out in the garden there * music *
* music * rivalling the glittering sunshine * music *
* music * with the glory of golden hair * music ** music *
excuse me .
do you know that piece from the beggar' s opera ?
oh , yes .
shall we ? * music ** music * [ piano ] * music * virgins are like the fair flower * music *
* music * ln its luster * music *
* music * which in the garden * music *
* music * enamels the ground * music * [ churchill ]
* music * near it the bees in play * music *
* music * flutter and cluster * music *
* music * and gaudy butterflies * music *
* music * frolic around * music *
* music ** music * [ singing continues ]
isn' t she playing marvelously ?
yes .
how sweet to have lent your carriage to her ... so that her fingers would be warm enough for the performance .
your playing was lovely .
much inferior to miss fairfax' s .
no !
no .
it was ... very elegant .
* music * rots , stinks and dies * music ** music *
was not that sweet of the campbells to give her so generous a gift ?
i don' t approve of surprises .
the pleasure is never enhanced , and the inconvenience is considerable .
bad judgment on the campbell' s part .
miss fairfax , shall we sing another ?
that fellow thinks of nothing but showing off .
jane will sing herself hoarse .
miss bates ?
yes , mr. knightley ?
you must put a stop to this .
she' il make herself ill .
oh , do you think so ?
yes .
well , i shall .
jane ?
yes , aunt ?
dear , i wonder if i might say a word to you ... before you and mr. churchill begin another song .
your voice is so lovely , jane ,
i think you should make every
miss woodhouse , you must forgive my intrusion , but my aunt has become ill .
it is nothing serious , but my presence might bring her solace .
therefore , i must return .
and although i expect my father at any moment ,
i could not leave without stopping here .
not even five minutes to spare for your friends , miss fairfax and miss bates ?
how unlucky !
no .
i stopped there on my way here .
after all their kindness , i don' t wish to slight them .
but it is not the bates nor my aunt that occupies my thoughts ... as i prepare to leave .
there is something much more personal that i must say to you .
i think you can hardly be without suspicion that i have developed ... certain feelings for someone of a most tender and devoted nature , which so far i have striven to hide .
yet you have always made me feel so wonderfully at ease , such a friend , since my very arrival ... that it not longer seems honorable to keep them from you .
in short , miss woodhouse , i cannot help but say to you [ charles ]
mr. weston .
mrs. weston has promised to correspond .
the blessings of a female correspondent when one wants news .
in her letters i shall be at highbury , and here again ... with you .
well , he loves me .
he was on the verge of telling me when his father burst in .
i felt listless after he left and had some sort of headache , so i must be in love as well .
i must confess i expected love to feel somewhat different than this .
i may determine how deep a love i feel through his absence .
how i wish he would be here tomorrow because there is a grim job to be done .
mr. elton is bringing his new wife to tea .
oh , you know , your home reminds me of maple grove ,
which is the seat of my brother , mr. suckling .
suckling .
the hall ?
and the size of the rooms ?
yes .
i' m really quite struck by it .
i almost fancy myself there .
i' m glad you can feel so at ease .
my brother and sister will be enchanted with this place .
people who have extensive grounds are always pleased to meet other people ... with extensive grounds .
i' m afraid you overrate hartfield .
surrey is full of beauties .
don' t tell me about surrey !
i always say it is " the garden of england .
yes , but many counties are called that .
oh ?
i fancy not .
i never heard any county but surrey called so .
mmm .
hmm .
oh !
ah .
well , i know little of other places .
we are ... a quiet set of people .
more disposed to stay at home .
yes .
your father' s health must be a great drawback to your seeing the country .
why does he not try bath ?
it would do him the world of good !
he has ... tried it before without receiving any benefit .
oh , it will do him good if only to improve his spirits , which , i understand , are sometimes much depressed .
you must take him !
a line from me and ... you would have some of the best society in the place .
and my particular friend there , mrs. partridge
thank you , but our going to bath is out of the question .
mrs. elton , i have not asked you if you are musical , and that is because your reputation has preceded you .
oh , well
all the town knows you are a superior performer .
well , i am dotingly fond of music .
yes , my wife
and my friends say i' m not entirely devoid of taste .
in fact , i told mr. " e " when he asked me to marry ,
i said i did not have to have two carriages as i did before , and i could even accept a smaller house .
my house before was a good deal roomier , i assure you .
but , no , the world is not necessary to me ... because i am blessed with so many resources ... in here .
but , " said i , " without music my life would be a blank .
in fact , you and i must establish a musical club !
we could have regular meetings at your house or ours .
because i don' t want to give up my talent .
do i ?
mrs. elton ,
i am certain it would take something more dramatic than a change of towns ... to dislodge a thing as great as your talent .
oh , well , i myself don' t call it great .
i only know that my friends think so .
ooh !
mmm .
we met the westons .
mmm , she is already a favorite with me .
and i was astonished that she was so ladylike !
was she not your governess ?
mrs. weston' s modest propriety makes her a model for any woman .
do you know who came in while we were there ?
i cannot imagine .
knightley .
knightley ?
knightley !
mr. " e' s " friend .
well , there' s one friend of whom he need not be ashamed .
quite the gentleman .
knightley ?
never seen him before and she called him knightley !
i saw her at church .
she seemed  vulgar ?
base ?
conceited ?
crass ?
how do you do , mrs. starr ?
good morning , miss woodhouse .
she actually seemed pleased to discover that mr. knightley was a gentleman .
i doubt he' il return the compliment and find her a lady .
mr. simons , good morning .
morning , miss woodhouse .
she proposed that we form a musical club .
is it possible that mr. elton met her ... while doing charitable work in a mental infirmary ?
there is only one thing to do with a person as impossible as she .
what ?
i must throw a party for her , otherwise everyone will feel at once how much i dislike her .
we' re so excited about the party .
do you know whom i just adore ?
who i want to wrap up and put in my pocket ?
knightley ?
jane fairfax !
oh !
ah !
i rave about her .
do you know what i admire most about her ?
she' s timid .
i' m a great advocate for timidity .
full many a flower is born to blush unseen .
we must not allow them to be verified by sweet jane .
there is no danger of that .
the campbells take great care of her .
whatever advantages she' s got from the campbells have palpably come to an end .
but if you and i set the example , many will follow .
oh , we live in a style which could not make the addition of jane fairfax ... the least inconvenient .
i' m simply going to adopt her , and i think that you should do it with me .
for the first time in my life ,
i felt sorry for jane fairfax .
whatever she may have done , she does not deserve mrs. elton .
jane may be glad of mrs. elton' s attentions , since they are available from no one else .
she seems to receive ample attention from you .
anyone may know my regard for her .
oh ?
do you know how high it is ?
oh , so , you two have been settling ...
that i should marry jane fairfax ?
no !
you could not come and sit with us if you were married .
jane fairfax is a very charming young woman .
but she lacks an open temper , which a man wishes for in a wife .
i have admiration for her , but no thought beyond , not at all .
no .
ah , i see mr. weston is at home .
i' il go and see him .
well , mrs. weston , what do you say about your suspicions now ?
he' s so very occupied with his not being in love with her , it seems certain that he is .
help yourself .
thank you .
it was most kind of you to invite jane fairfax this evening .
your words the other day shamed me .
i have not tried as i should have .
you' re capable of great kindness .
i fall short so often .
and i highly doubt she will find this a kindness .
jane , you' re a very , very fragile creature .
you pay no regard to the delicacy of your constitution .
jane .
knightley !
help us !
knightley !
jane went to the post office today in the rain ... at great peril to her health !
oh , jane , you sad girl !
this is a sign that i was not there to take care of you .
knightley !
tell her .
tell her !
i' m sure she knows what she can endure , mrs. elton .
but , of course .
do take care of yourself .
thank you .
mr. weston .
we had quite given you up .
i' m afraid we had to start without you .
oh , forgive me , mr. woodhouse , emma .
no , please .
the journey from london was especially slow , or perhaps it just seemed so ... as i had some good news that i was eager to share .
frank' s aunt is on the mend , and frank is taking a house in highbury .
oh !
good news , indeed !
well , well , well .
i shall have to do something with mr. " e " to welcome him .
mr. " e " ?
yes , indeed , we
highbury' s a little different since he left , you know .
there' s been an addition , if i may presume to call myself an addition .
uh , personally i wouldn' t presume to .
i' m simply quoting other people .
but i think mr. frank churchill will find one or two small changes ... in the vicinity since he last came to visit his good father .
frank churchill .
hmm .
i must own that i am not in love with frank .
i have not thought of him ... since he left , except for the mention harriet made of him the other day .
harriet !
and frank !
oh , wouldn' t they be charming ?
it would so relieve me to know harriet was well taken care of .
perhaps i can bring them together at the ball .
lucky the man who exchanges emma for harriet .
i can think of nothing less appealing ... than an evening of watching other people dance .
go on !
then you shall have to dance yourself .
i have no taste for it .
i' d rather fetch that stick .
i' il try to remember to bring it to the ball .
i just want to stay here where it' s cozy .
miss woodhouse .
mr. churchill !
i came early to see if i could be of service to your father .
you' re late .
the whole party is here to help my father prepare for the party .
even hampstead .
are you waiting for someone ?
hmm , mrs. elton .
mrs. elton ?
why ever for ?
i hear much of her .
she is bringing jane fairfax in the carriage .
perhaps tonight we can finally ask jane fairfax about mr. dixon .
or did you acquire the courage during my absence ?
oh , is that they ?
do , do excuse me .
frank just told me the most fascinating thing .
tell me .
he' s heard about mrs. elton and he still wants to meet her .
i always say , always , there is no place where the people are as nice as in highbury .
we were not two steps out of the carriage , not two , it was possibly less , when frank churchill , he came bounding up .
he was bounding , i tell you , to see if we needed any assistance .
he is so obliging .
good evening , mr. cole .
oh , mr. churchill , i , i was just telling miss woodhouse and mrs. weston ... how obliging you are .
i , i shall never forget your kindness , not as long as i live .
nor , well , nor shall mother .
since you replaced the rivet in her spectacles , not only have they been as good as new , they have been better .
we are so obliged .
oh , look ! lsn' t this room just like a fairyland ?
how do you like jane' s hair ?
she did it herself .
oh , look !
there are the hugheses .
i must go and say hello .
* music ** music * [ instruments tuning ]
* music ** music * [ dance ]
harriet is all alone .
do you not dance , mr. elton ?
most readily , mrs. weston , if you will be my partner .
dear me , i' m no dancer .
let me find a better partner for you .
though i am an old married man ,
i should enjoy dancing with mrs. gilbert .
miss smith .
miss smith .
i had not observed her there .
well , you' re most obliging to have pointed her out to me , and were i not an old married man , i should gladly do the job .
but my dancing days are over .
i can only say that at that moment you took her to the floor ...
i was proud to call you my friend .
the eltons are unpardonable .
i must say , they aim at wounding more than just harriet .
they seem to want to snub you , too , emma .
why ?
certainly mrs. elton has no reason to dislike you .
confess now , old friend .
you did want him to marry harriet .
i did , and they cannot forgive me .
oh , dear .
how could i have made such a misjudgment ?
what is the point in me being almost 22 ... if there is still so much for me to learn ?
you know more than you realize .
i know i must own to you to be completely wrong about mr. elton .
there is a littleness to him which you discovered that i did not .
in return for your acknowledging so much ,
i say that you chose for him better than he chose for himself .
but harriet smith has some first rate qualities about her ... which mrs. elton is entirely without .
your friend surprised me , most pleasantly .
emma , it' s the last dance .
will you come set the example for your companions ?
gladly .
whom are you going to dance with ?
with you , if you will ask me .
you' ve shown yourself a fine dancer despite all your protests , and it should not be improper for us to dance .
after all , we are not brother and sister .
brother and sister ?
no , no . * music ** music * [ music begins ]
indeed we' re not .
what of your news ?
we must wait until we' re at your house in front of the fireplace .
it must happen there .
very well .
wasn' t the ball lovely ?
i had the most wonderful time .
it was out of a dream .
it' s all right , dear .
just let' s move a touch more quickly .
tell me more about the ball .
um , i had such
it was very  quick , get her purse !
get around them , damn it !
stop !
stop !
stand aside !
how can i ever thank you ?
how brave you were !
i owe you everything !
miss woodhouse will make things right .
if i' m no longer needed , i must leave now to meet my father .
of course .
bless you for your help .
bless you again and again .
goodness .
what an afternoon !
all this trouble to do something i should have done long ago .
i have come to a decision about mr. elton .
i am done with him .
i shall never forget him or his wife at the ball .
to prove my sincerity , i shall now destroy something ... which i had thought to treasure always .
you know what this is , of course .
can you have forgotten ?
mr. elton cut his finger , and you urged me to bind the wound .
i cut too much bandage , so i trimmed it ... and he played with the extra little bit while i finished it up .
he left it by his chair .
and i , in my nonsense , made a treasure of it .
dear harriet .
now that was silly .
but here is something which truly was his .
he left it here once and i took it .
i used to take it ... and hold it .
but no more .
i want to be rid of these things with you as my witness .
i think i should burn them .
i think it would be a wise and relieving thing to do .
good bye , mr. elton .
hello , mr. churchill .
mmm .
when you get married , you must eat strawberries at your wedding .
i shall never marry .
really ?
i was certain you were developing feelings for someone .
the service he rendered you would endear him naturally .
oh , i cannot tell you how i felt when i saw him coming to my rescue .
i went from agony to utter happiness at the sight of him !
he is a fine choice for you .
but do not let your feelings go until you are sure of his .
i give you this caution now because i am determined never to interfere .
i will not even say his name to you .
only that raising your thoughts to him is a mark of your very good taste .
i have some wonderful news .
i have found a position for you .
it is with a choice family in bath ,
and the position is one of  [ jane ]
i' m most obliged , but i would not consider leaving highbury .
as your protector , i cannot allow you to feel that way .
i' m sure everyone agrees with me .
what are your options after all , jane , hmm ?
these sandwiches are delicious , mrs. elton .
you really are a gourmet .
well , i never compliment myself , but ... my friends tell me i certainly know how to make a sandwich .
now , jane  shall we all play a game ?
i command that we each tell miss woodhouse something entertaining .
you may offer one thing very clever , two things moderately clever , or three things very dull indeed .
in return , miss woodhouse will laugh heartily at them all .
i do not pretend to be a wit , though i have a great deal of vivacity in my own way , of course .
these diversions are tolerable at christmas when one is around the fire .
but in my opinion , it wastes the outdoors .
miss woodhouse , you must excuse me .
and me .
i am an old married man .
i have nothing to say that would please miss woodhouse ... or any young lady .
oh , [ chuckles ] well .
i need not be uneasy , as long as we' re allowed three dull things .
very dull , in fact .
i shall be sure to say three very dull things ... as soon as i open my mouth , shan' t i ?
there may be a difficulty .
i doubt that .
i' m sure i never fail to say things very dull .
yes , dear , but you' il be limited as to number .
only three .
oh !
to be sure .
yes .
i , l
i , l
i , i see .
i see .
i see what she means .
hmm .
i will try and hold my tongue .
oh , i must make myself very ... disagreeable .
or , or she would not have said such a thing to an old ... friend .
well , [ giggles ] just three .
yes .
miss bates , will you give me the pleasure of your company ...
whilst i pick some more strawberries ?
oh , thank you ,
mr. knightley .
that would be charming .
emma ?
how could you be so unfeeling to miss bates ?
how could you be so insolent to a woman of her age and situation ?
i' d not thought it possible .
how could i help saying it ?
i daresay she did not understand me .
i assure you she felt your full meaning .
she cannot stop mentioning it .
i wish you could have heard her honor your forbearance in putting up with her ... when her society is so irksome !
i know there is no better creature in all the world , but you must allow ... that blended alongside the good , there is an equal amount of the ridiculous in her .
were she prosperous or a woman equal to you in situation ,
i would not quarrel about any liberties of manner .
but she is poor !
even more so than when she was born !
and should she live to be an old lady , she will sink further still .
her situation being in every way below you should secure your compassion !
badly done , emma .
badly done .
she has watched you grow from a time when her notice of you was an honor ... to this .
humbling her and laughing at her ... in front of people who would be guided by your treatment of her .
ah !
it is not pleasant for me to say these things .
but i must tell you the truth while i can .
proving myself your friend by the most faithful counsel ,
and trusting that sometime you will do my faith in you greater justice ... than you do it now .
oh , good afternoon , miss woodhouse .
please come in .
just a moment , please .
just tell her i' m unwell , mother , and laid down upon the bed .
i' ve been planning a visit
... first and say good bye .
you mean , you walked ...
all the way , and on such a cold night ?
certainly i walked .
my dear , how did you find my old friend and her daughter ?
emma has called on mrs. and miss bates .
she always shows them such kindness .
no , father .
they have been the ones to forebear and show me kindness .
nonsense , daughter !
the charity you have given them
i have given them charity but not kindness , a virtue which some friends may doubt i still have .
the truest friend does not doubt ... but hope .
i must go .
i' m leaving town to visit john and lsabella .
i' m sorry i was not here sooner ... so that we could have talked .
so am l .
when will you be back ?
i don' t know .
there is a delicate and perplexing matter ...
i must discuss with my brother .
well , then
well , then [ chuckles ]
frank churchill' s aunt has died , taking him away .
this strengthens harriet' s chances with him , since the aunt was sure to object .
i continue in my efforts to make amends with miss bates .
though matters are not yet fully repaired ,
i feel that a renewal of our friendship is ahead of us .
above all , i am most gratified to say ... that could mr. knightley
mr. knightley
hmm .
had been privy to my attempts , could he have seen into my heart ,
i think he would not , on this occasion , have found anything to reprove .
frank ... is engaged .
i cannot believe it !
so quickly ?
quickly ?
the engagement has been in place for some time .
emma , frank has been secretly engaged ... to jane fairfax .
good god !
this cannot be the truth !
they' ve been engaged since october , formed at weymouth through their friend , charles dixon .
mr. dixon !
he kept it secret because he feared his aunt' s disapproval .
it has hurt both his father and me , most especially because of whom else it might hurt .
i cannot pretend that i do not understand what you mean by that .
but let me give you all the relief in my power .
there was a time when i was attached to frank .
fortunately , that ceased and for some time i have felt nothing for him .
this was my greatest worry .
i' m certain you knew it was our wish you might be attached .
imagine what we felt on your account .
there is no need to worry about that .
although how could he have come here and treated me in this fashion ?
it is cruel !
truly cruel !
yes , dear .
but i thought you said you felt nothing for him .
yes , but he did not know that .
he is benefiting from a very lucky coincidence .
now , emma , he' s a good man , however wrong this action might be .
dear , might i entreat you to put mr. weston' s heart at ease ?
he' s been as worried about you as l .
could you let him know how glad you are for frank ... to have found a girl of such steady character ?
i do not know how steady her character can be , engaging herself to a man ... who pretends not to be engaged , and then deceives attractive and feeling young women .
here is the luckiest father in all of england !
thank you .
is this not the oddest news you' ve ever heard about ...
mr. churchill and miss fairfax ?
had you any idea of it ?
can you imagine that i knew ... when i was encouraging you to give way to your own feelings ?
had i known , i would have cautioned you .
cautioned me ?
why ?
you do not think that i care about frank churchill !
wha what do you mean ?
you , you said that you loved a man  i did not name him , but i hope i have developed better taste than to choose frank churchill over him .
frank churchill .
furthermore , i would never have even dreamed of him ... except that you told me he was wonderful .
yes , but i thought you meant
that raising my thoughts to him was a sign of my good taste .
those were your words .
but i meant them in reference to
without having heard them , i would never have dared to hope .
harriet , please !
before we can go on , there is something that i must clarify .
is it possible that you are speaking of ...
mr. knightley ?
to be sure .
but , y you spoke of the service that frank had done you ...
in rescuing you from the gypsies .
i never said that .
i recall it with perfect clarity .
if i spoke of being rescued , i was thinking of mr. knightley' s ... asking me to dance after mr. elton snubbed me .
that was when i knew how superior a man he was .
good god !
this is a horrible mistake .
what is to be done ?
must something be done about it ?
you must think him 500 million times more above me than mr. churchill .
yet , you did say  harriet ?
have
have you any idea of mr. knightley' s returning your affection ?
yes , i must say that i have .
you told me ... to let his behavior be the rule of mine , and so i have .
am i wrong to hope as i do ?
harriet ,
i can only venture to declare that mr. knightley ... is the last man on earth who would intentionally give any woman ... the idea of his feeling more for her than he really does .
this is tragic .
why is it tragic that harriet should attach herself ... to a man who you admire so much ?
i have asked myself many times why this should have unsettled me , and i came to see that i do not admire mr. knightley as i have so long thought .
i love him ... so dearly , so greatly .
outside of you and father , his is the opinion which matters most .
oh , my dearest child !
i did not know it ... until poor harriet said she had the hope of him returning her feelings .
then i felt ill that i could lose him , and i knew that no one must marry mr. knightley ...
but me .
how heavenly !
but i am too late .
just before he left town he said
there is a delicate and perplexing matter i must discuss with my brother .
i hope his brother advises him to be careful .
after all , we know nothing about her parents .
they could be pirates .
my dear , i like harriet very much , as i might remind you , do you .
but remember , her feelings are evidence of her feelings only .
nothing can be known until mr. knightley returns .
oh , i long for it and fear it at the same time .
i shall not know how to behave when i see him .
let his behavior be your guide .
but , oh , dear !
if he seems happy , i shall know that he has decided to marry harriet , and i will not , i know i will not be able to let him tell me .
i could not bear to hear the words .
if he seems sad , i shall know that john has advised him not to marry harriet .
i love john !
or , he may seem sad because he fears telling me he will marry my friend .
how could john let him do that ?
i hate john !
my dear , nothing can be done until he returns .
and until he does , you must try to put him out of your mind .
can you ?
certainly i can .
i may have lost my heart , but not my self control .
dear diary .
today i tried not to think about mr. knightley .
i tried not to think about him when i spoke about the menu with cook .
oh , is mr. knightley coming ?
why do you say that ?
lamb stew' s his favorite .
i tried not to think about him in the garden ... where i thrice plucked the petals off a daisy ... to ascertain his feelings for harriet .
i don' t think we should keep daisies in the garden .
they really are drab little flowers .
and i tried not to think about him when i went to bed .
but something had to be done .
dear lord , if he cannot share a life with me , is it wrong to ask that he not share it with anyone ?
that we go on as we go on now , him stopping by at any hour , always the brightest part of our lives , a natural and easy member of the family ?
i would be content if he would just stay single , lord .
that' s it .
if he would just stay single , lord , that would be enough for me to be perfectly satisfied .
almost .
amen .
emma !
forgive me .
uh , i was , uh i was lost in my thoughts .
and how are you ?
happy ?
w well , i' m ...
happy to see you , as always .
ah .
i didn' t , uh , know that you were back .
just .
oh .
yes , just .
oh .
yes .
i' m on my way home .
i was just there .
may i join you ?
of course .
oh , dear .
what ?
what ?
oh .
oh !
something about the deer we need for the venison stew .
uh huh .
there' s something i have to ask you .
oh , wait .
now that you are back , there is some news that will surprise you .
of what nature is this news ?
the very best .
it is a wedding between two people
oh , yes , between jane and mr. churchill .
mr. weston wrote to me .
undoubtedly you were not surprised .
well
but i seem doomed to blindness .
time will heal your wound .
my wound ?
i know you must' ve been ... cruelly disappointed by his secret .
he' s a scoundrel .
you are kind .
but i must tell you that i quickly saw that frank lacked qualities , honesty being one of them , which are essential to me in any kind of friend .
emma , uh is that true ?
he imposed on me , but he has not injured me .
yes .
he got everything he wanted at great expense to others ... and at no cost to himself .
he offends me deeply .
yet , there is , there' s something in his situation that i envy .
did i mention that we are having a new drain installed ?
you will not ask me the point of my envy ?
well , perhaps you are wise .
but l
i cannot be wise .
emma , i must tell you what you will not ask ,
though i may wish it unsaid the next moment .
then do not speak it .
do not commit yourself to something which may injure us both to have said .
very well .
very well ... good day .
mr. knightley ?
mr. knightley ,
i stopped you ungraciously just now and gave you pain .
if you have any wish to speak to me openly about anything you might have in contemplation , as your friend i cannot refuse you .
indeed , as your old friend ,
i will hear whatever it is you wish to tell me .
emma !
you want our friendship to remain the same as it has always been .
but i cannot desire that .
but why ?
i know i made mistakes , but had you been here the last few days ... you would have seen how i have tried to change .
please , tell me i am your friend .
i do not wish to call you my friend because ...
i hope to call you something infinitely more dear .
have you not wondered why i never befriended frank churchill ?
it was because i knew he was intended for you .
indeed , when you insulted miss bates at the picnic ,
i thought that evidence of his influence over you .
and i could not bear to see it .
so i went away .
but i went to the wrong place .
my brother' s house is usually a place of comfort to me , but seeing your sister there kept you fresh in my mind .
and the torture , i assure you , was acute .
i only felt hope again ... when i heard of mr. churchill' s engagement .
and i rushed back , anxious for your feelings .
came to be near you .
i rode through the rain .
i i' d ride through worse than that ... if i could just hear your voice telling me ... that i might at least have ... some chance to win you .
mr. knightley , if i have not spoken ... it is because i am afraid i will awaken myself from this dream .
it cannot be true .
but i feel so full of error , so mistaken in my makeup to deserve you .
what of my flaws ?
i' ve humbled you and i' ve lectured you , and you have borne it as no one could have borne it .
maybe it is our imperfections which make us so perfect for one another .
marry me ?
marry me , my wonderful , darling friend .
let' s go to your father .
oh , dear .
what ?
i cannot marry you .
why ever not ?
my father .
first my sister , then mrs. weston .
i don' t think he could bear my leaving , even for a man he regards as highly as you .
i cannot marry you .
i cannot abandon him .
i cannot !
i could not secure your happiness while attacking your father' s .
as long as his joy requires your being at hartfield ,
iet it be my home too .
thank you .
thank you .
now i need not call you mr. knightley .
i may call you my mr. knightley .
the elation mr. woodhouse felt was soon shared by many .
while these exchanges lifted the hearts of the couple , there was one visit which did not .
emma knew that the best chance for harriet' s happiness ... was that she might marry as well .
but it seemed too much to hope that even harriet smith ... could be in love with more than three men in one year .
miss woodhouse , may i come in ?
you know you need never ask .
please do , and tell me how you' ve been .
it seems weeks since you' ve been here .
yes .
i stayed away at first because i thought it would be easier for me .
then i stayed away because i have something to tell you ... which i' m afraid you will not like .
harriet , nothing you could say would ever be unpleasant .
this is .
that is , i' m afraid you' il think it is , though i think it as beautiful as a dream .
i have consented to marry robert martin .
whatever happened ?
after i left here the last time ,
i saw his sister at a party .
i fell easily into conversation with her , and soon enough she invited me to dinner .
mr. martin was there , of course , and we talked as though we had never been apart .
as i left , he asked if he could see me the next day .
i said that he could , and on the next day ... he asked if he could see me the day after that .
and on the day after that , he asked if he could see me all the days ever after .
harriet .
i know this disappoints you , but
harriet , you mistake me .
this is the perfect end for my sad career as a matchmaker , a role i gladly relinquish by being instead so happily matched myself .
i hope you know that i only wanted your happiness .
now that you have found it , it makes my own complete .
there were those who thought the wedding a little shabby .
i do not profess to be an expert in the field of fashion , though my friends say i have quite the eye .
but i can tell you , there is a shocking lack of satin .
bravo !
bravo !
however , the wishes , the faith and the predictions ... of the small band of true friends who witnessed the ceremony ... were fully answered in the perfect happiness of the union .
